<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655708</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor laser exposure device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F720	G03F720	G06K1512	G06K1512	H04N1191	H04N1191	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G06K	G06K	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	G06K15	G06K15	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor laser exposure device, said 
device having a scanning table (1) on which are mounted 

a semiconductor laser array (2) which radiates laser 
beams on to an exposed object W, a lens array (3) 

mounted at a distance A away from the semiconductor 
laser array (2), a first condensing lens (4) mounted at 

a distance B away from the lens array (3); a second 
condensing lens (5) mounted at a distance C away from 

the first condensing lens (4); and an autofocus lens 
(fi) mounted a distance D away from the second 

condensing lens (5); and the said semiconductor laser 
array (2) being equipped with the required number of 

semiconductor lasers arranged in parallel to enable 
laser beams to be radiated in parallel at required pitch 

(t) between the required optical axes, the said lens 
array (3) being comprised of lenses arranged in 

parallel, the pitch (t) between the lens centers being 
the same as the pitch between the optical axes of the 

said laser beams, the lenses having the function of 
widening the expansion angle of the laser beams emitted 

from the said semiconductor lasers, the distance B 
between the said lens array (3) and the said first 

condensing lens (4) being determined to enable an 
appropriate amount of overlapping to occur between the 

laser beams adjacent to each other when the laser beams 
reach the widened center of the said first condensing 

lens (4) after the aperture of the lens is expanded by 
the said lens array (3); the distance C between the said 

first condensing lens (4) and the said second condensing 
lens (5) being determined at a distance where the focal 

length (f1) of the first condensing lens (4) and the 
focal length (f2) of the second condensing lens (5) are  

 
added; the distance D between the said second condensing 

lens (5) and the said autofocus lens (6) being 
determined at a distance where the focal length (f2) of 

the second condensing lens (5) and the focal length (f3) 
of the autofocus lens (6) are added; the distance 

between the said autofocus lens (6) and the said exposed 
object (W) being determined to be identical to the focal 

length (f3) of the autofocus lens (6) after the said 
scanning table (1) is shifted towards the X-axis 

direction prior to the exposure, and is also identical 
to the focal length (f3) during the exposure utilising 

the autofocus function of the autofocus lens (6). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THINK LABS KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THINK LABORATORY CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIURA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIURA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a semiconductor laser 
exposure device which can conduct a plurality of laser 
beam exposures by utilizing a semiconductor laser array 
where a plurality of laser beams overlap each other one 
by one sideways. Conventional semiconductor laser exposure 
devices are designed so that one laser beam is emitted 
on to either a silver chloride film rolled around a drum 
or a photosensitive film coated plate roll and adopt a 
singular laser beam exposure system where the main 
scanning process (rotation) is conducted on to the drum 
or the roll and at the same time the laser beam is 
linearly sub-scanned along the drum; however, such 
conventional semiconductor laser beam exposure system 
requires a long exposure time. If the number of laser beams are increased, the 
required time for exposure would be shortened only 
fractionally compared to using one laser beam. 
Accordingly, the possibility of increasing the number of 
laser beams by utilizing beam splitters has been 
considered. However, compared to an argon neon gas 
laser, the beam energy of a semiconductor laser is much 
too small to go through beam splitters. Accordingly 
mounting of a plurality of semiconductor lasers in 
parallel has been considered; however, the distance 
between the semiconductor lasers would be too large 
thereby creating difficulties in arranging the laser 
beams in a row overlapping one another. Accordingly, it 
may be possible to utilize not semiconductor lasers 
mounted in parallel but rather a semiconductor laser 
array where optical measurements can be taken by 
restraining the pitch of the laser beam to let the laser  
 
beams be emitted in a row overlapping one another 
transversely. This invention has for an object the provision 
of a semiconductor laser exposure device which enables 
the exposure time to be greatly shortened by utilising a 
semiconductor laser array where a plurality of laser 
beams can overlap in a row, and a plurality of laser 
beam exposures is made possible by shifting the emission 
direction parallel or perpendicular to the direction of 
the said laser beams. According to the present invention there is 
provided a semiconductor laser exposure device, said 
device having a scanning table on which are mounted a 
semiconductor laser array which radiates laser beams on 
to an exposed object W, a lens array mounted at a 
distance A away from the semiconductor laser array, a 
first condensing lens mounted at a distance B away from 
the lens array; a second condensing lens mounted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor laser exposure device, said 
device having a scanning table (1) on which are mounted 

a semiconductor laser array (2) which radiates laser 
beams on to an exposed object W, a lens array (3) 

mounted at a distance A away from the semiconductor 
laser array (2), a first condensing lens (4) mounted at 

a distance B away from the lens array (3); a second 
condensing lens (5) mounted at a distance C away from 

the first condensing lens (4); and an autofocus lens 
(fi) mounted a distance D away from the second 

condensing lens (5); and the said semiconductor laser 
array (2) being equipped with the required number of 

semiconductor lasers arranged in parallel to enable 
laser beams to be radiated in parallel at the required 

pitch (t) between the required optical axes, the said 
lens array (3) being comprised of lenses arranged in 

parallel, the pitch (t) between the lens centers being 
the same as the pitch between the optical axes of the 

said laser beams, the lenses having the function of 
widening the expansion angle of the laser bears emitted 

from the said semiconductor lasers, the distance B 
between the said lens array (3) and the said first 

condensing lens (4) being determined to enable an 
appropriate amount of overlapping to occur between the 

laser beams adjacent to each other when the laser beams 
reach the widened center of the said first condensing 

lens (4) after the aperture of the lens is expanded by 
the said lens array (3); the distance C between the said 

first condensing lens (4) and the said second condensing 
lens (5) being determined at a distance where the focal 

length (f1) of the first condensing lens (4) and the 
focal length (f2) of the second condensing lens (5) are 

added; the distance D between the said second condensing 
lens (5) and the said autofocus lens (6) being 

 
determined at a distance where the focal length (f2) of 

the second condensing lens (5) and the focal length (f3) 
of the autofocus lens (6) are added; the distance 

between the said autofocus lens (6) and the said exposed 
object (W) being determined to be identical to the focal 

length (f3) of the autofocus lens (6) after the said 
scanning table (1) is shifted towards the X-axis 

direction prior to the exposure, and is also identical 
to the focal length (f3) during the exposure utilizing 

the autofocus function of the autofocus lens (6). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
