<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631068</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Arrangement for the rotational drive of an element of a machine or of a subassembly with a work gearing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66C2384	F16H5702	F16H104	F16H116	F16H5702	B66C2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66C	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	B66C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66C23	F16H57	F16H1	F16H1	F16H57	B66C23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Arrangement for the rotational drive of a machine or plant element, for example a crane, on a chassis or foundation, with a worm gear mechanism (3, 4), the housing (2) of which is secured on the chassis or foundation, the worm (3) of which can be set in rotation manually or by a drive motor and the worm wheel (4) of which is rotatably mounted in the housing (2), this being achieved by providing it with respective separate rolling-contact bearings (10, 11, 12) on both sides (6A, 6B) of its toothing (6) provided for engagement with the worm (3), the housing (2) being formed with a base part (2A) and a cover part (2B) which can be fixed in surface contact with the latter, at least one side face (6A, 6B) or untoothed side wall of the worm wheel (4) having a connecting projection which passes through the base or cover part (2A, 2B) and is designed for connection to the part to be rotated, and the two outer races (12) of the rolling-contact bearings resting against and/or being fixed on the respective walls of the base and cover parts (2A, 2B) of the housing (2), and the two associated inner races (10) each resting against and/or being fixed on the wall of the worm wheel (4). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Arrangement for the rotary operation of a machine or 
plant part, e.g. a crane, on a chassis or bed, having a 

worm gear (1), of which the housing (2) is fastened on 
the chassis or bed, the worm (3) may be set in rotation 

manually or by a drive motor and the worm wheel (4) is 
rotatably supported in the housing (2) in that the worm 

wheel (4) on each of the two sides (6a, 6b) of its 
gearing (6) provided for meshing with the worm (3) is 

provided with a separate rolling bearing (10, 11, 12), 
characterized in that the housing (2) is formed by a base 

part (2a) and a top part (2b) fixable flat onto said base 
part, that at least one face (6a, 6b) or non-geared side 

wall of the worm wheel (4) has a connecting projection 
(7), which penetrates the base or top part and is 

designed for connection to the part to be rotated, and 
that the two outer rings (12) of the rolling bearings 

rest against and/or are fixed to the respective wall of 
the base and top parts (2a, 2b) of the housing (2) and 

the two associated inner rings (10) each rest against 
and/or are fixed to the wall of the worm wheel (4). 
Arrangement according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the mounting of the worm wheel (4) is realized by means 

of two skew rolling bearings (Fig.4), in which a 
peripheral section of between 60 and 120°, preferably 

90°, of the rolling bodies (11) is enclosed in each case 
by the liners and by the inner and outer ring (10, 12). 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that, for mounting the worm wheel (4), 

two rolling bearings (10, 11, 12) are disposed, the 
liners or inner and outer rings (10, 12) of which are 

slit (19). 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that, for mounting the worm wheel (4), 

two rolling bearings (10, 11, 12) are disposed, in which  
 

the inner ring (10) has a diameter which is different 
from, in particular smaller than, the outer ring (12). 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the base and/or top part of the 

gear housing (2) and/or the worm wheel (4) each have a 
recess, into which the outer ring (12) is inserted. 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized by two or more drivable worms which are 

meshed with the common worm wheel. 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized by rolling bearings having a plurality of 

rolling body rims, associated with which are preferably 
rolling tracks which lie at a predetermined angle 

relative to one another. 
Arrangement according to claim 7, characterized in that 
the rolling bearings having a plurality of rolling body 

rims take the form of known combined radial and thrust 
bearings. 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
having an elongated worm (3) and a worm wheel (4) meshed 

therewith, which are in each case rotatably supported in 
a common gear housing (2) or frame, characterized in that 

the worm (3) is additionally supported so as to be 
displaceable (17) in its longitudinal direction counter 

to spring force. 
Arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the spring force opposing the displacement (17) is 

realized by one or more spring elements (15, 16), which 
are supported relative to the housing wall (2) and act 

(13) upon the worm (3).  
 
Arrangement according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in 
that the spring force opposing the displacement is 

realized by one or more spring elements (15, 16), which 
act (13) upon the worm (3) in each case between an end 

face of its thread (5) and its immediately adjacent, 
rotatably supported end portion (14) and are supported 

relative to the housing wall (2) of the gear (1). 
Arrangement according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in 
that one or more spring elements (15, 16) take the form 

of helical or cup springs (16), which are penetrated by 
the worm and are possibly combined to form jointly 

tensionable sets of springs. 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the top and base parts (2a, 2b) of 

the housing (2) may be placed one on top of the other 
and/or screwed to one another in the direction of the 

worm wheel axis (18) or parallel to the worm wheel axis 
(18). 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the common supporting surfaces (20) 

of the base and top parts (2a, 2b) of the housing (2) are 
penetrated by fixing means, in particular by screw means 

(21, 24). 
Arrangement according to claim 14, characterized in that 
the fixing or screw means (21, 24) extend parallel to the 

worm wheel axis (18). 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the connecting projection (7) 

axially or paraxially penetrates the top and base parts 
(2a, 2b).  

 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the worm (3) is provided at either 

end with a combined radial and thrust bearing. 
Arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the connecting projection (7) is 

used to receive and support the machine or plant part. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
