<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650398</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPRAYING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1512	B05B1512	B05B1504	B05B1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B15	B05B15	B05B15	B05B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spraying device, in particular for spray-painting objects (4), has a conveyor (1) for transporting the objects and a collector (5) for collecting the medium sprayed past the objects and the conveyor. The collector has an endless circulating belt (5) independent from the conveyor (1) and a device (7, 8) which rests on the belt (5) for removing the medium sprayed thereon.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDER MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDER, MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALDNER FRANZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALDNER, FRANZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for spray treating articles, in 
particular for spray painting articles, comprising 

a support for the articles and a collector device 
for collecting the spray medium which passes the 

articles and the support, wherein the collector 
device has an endlessly circulating belt (5) which 

is independent of the support, characterised in 
that there are provided means (7) which bear 

against the belt for bringing spray medium which 
lies on the belt (5) together to form at least one 

line (9) of the spray medium, which is narrower 
than the belt width, and that there is further 

provided a removal device (8) which bears against 
the belt (5) and which is arranged downstream of 

said line-forming means (7) in the conveying 
direction, for removal of the line or lines (9) 

from the belt (5). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the line-forming means (7) form a single 

spray medium line (9) which is preferably on the 
middle of the belt. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised in that the line-forming means (7) 

and/or the removal device (8) includes at least 
one lip (7) which is set inclinedly relative to 

the conveying direction (10) of the belt (5) and 
which can be preferably resiliently pressed 

against the belt (5). 
Apparatus according to claim 3, characterised in 
that the lip (7) is fixed on a carrier arm (12) 

which is displaceable relative to the belt (5).  
 
Apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4, 
characterised in that the lip (7) comprises a 

material which is elastic in itself, preferably 
metal. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 3 to 5, 
characterised in that the side of the lip which is 

towards the spray medium includes an acute angle 
(Î±) with the belt surface. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 6, 
comprising a conveyor device for transporting the 

articles which preferably lie theron, 
characterised in that the belt (5) for collecting 

the spray medium is movable transversely to the 
conveying direction of the conveyor device (1). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterised in that the removal device has at 

least one pipe (8) which can be preferably 
resiliently pressed against the belt (5). 
Apparatus according to claim 8, characterised in 
that the pipe is pressed against the belt (5) in 

the region of a direction-changing roller (6) for 
the belt (5). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that there is provided a device 

for applying to the belt (5) an additional agent, 
preferably a paint solvent. 
Apparatus according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the device for applying the additional agent 

includes at least one nozzle (45) for spraying on 
the additional agent.  

 
Apparatus according to claim 10 or claim 11, 
characterised in that the device for applying the 

additional agent includes at least one applicator 
roller (46) for the additional agent, the roller 

bearing against the belt (5). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 10 to 12, 
characterised in that the device for applying the 

additional agent includes at least one applicator 
(47) which is in contact with the belt (5) and 

which comprises porous or fibrous material, in 
particular felt. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 10 to 13, 
characterised in that the device for applying the 

additional agent - as viewed in the conveying 
direction of the belt (5) - is arranged upstream 

of that region at which the spray medium that 
passes the articles (4) impinges onto the belt 

(5). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 14, 
characterised in that the support (18) has thin 

wires, threads or the like which are stretched 
over the belt (5), wherein said threads, wires or 

the like are stretched between holders (21) which 
are mounted on displaceable carriages (22). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 15, 
characterised in that the belt (5) for collecting 

the spray medium has a surface structure (28). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 16, 
characterised in that the peripheral speed of the 

belt (5) for collecting the spray medium is - 
preferably steplessly - controllable.  

 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 16, 
characterised in that the peripheral speed of the 

belt (5) for collecting the spray medium is higher 
than the transportation speed of the conveyor 

device (1). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 18, 
characterised in that the spray medium which is 

removed from the belt is collected and fed to a 
storage container (36) for the spray medium, the 

viscosity of the removed spray medium being 
detected and - to produce a given spray medium 

viscosity - solvent being added to the spray 
medium in dependence on the detected viscosity. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 19, 
characterised in that the removal device (7, 8) 

and/or the storage container (36) are at least 
partially cooled. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 20, 
characterised in that the belt (5) is guided over 

two preferably rounded-off supports (49) and at 
least part of the line-forming means (7) or the 

removal device (8) is pressed against the belt (5) 
which is free between the supports (49). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
