<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621389</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Roller blind
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B950	E06B924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B9	E06B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENTHIN AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENTHIN AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENTHIN SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENTHIN, SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Roller blind having a take-up shaft (1), one end of
which is provided with driving means and both ends of

which are rotatably supported in holders (8) mounted
in a fixed manner, characterized in that provided on

the end of the take-up shaft (1) lying opposite the
driving means is a bearing having a shaft journal (4),

which is supported in a freely rotatable manner in a
housing (3) on the take-up shaft (1) and which at an

end projecting from the housing has an, in cross
section, polygonal receiving slot (6) open at one end

for a support journal (7) of a corresponding cross
section, which is formed on the holder (8), and an

elastically deformable locking element (5), which
secures the support journal (7) in the receiving slot

(6).
Roller blind according to claim 1, characterized in
that the shaft journal (4) is supported preassembled

in a bush, which forms the housing (3) and is inserted
in a non-rotatable manner into an end receiver of the

take-up shaft (1).
Roller blind according to claims 1 and 2,

characterized in that the locking element (5) is
movable relative to the shaft journal (4) at right

angles to the receiving slot (6) with simultaneous

elastic deformation counter to the restoring forces
occasioned thereby out of the locking position until

the support journal (7) in the receiving slot (6) is
released.
Roller blind according to claims 1 to 3, characterized
in that the locking element (5) is disposed inside the

shaft journal (4) and has a handle (11) exposed at the
periphery of the shaft journal (4). 
Roller blind according to claims 1 to 4, characterized
in that the locking element (5), in cross section of

the receiving slot, is L-shaped and in the locking
position engages with one limb (10) behind the support

journal (7) in the receiving slot (6) at the open slot
end.
Roller blind according to claims 1 to 5, characterized
in that, for the bearing arrangement of both ends of

the take-up shaft (1), correspondingly designed
holders (8) with support journals (7) are provided.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
