<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643239</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transmission with incorporated clutch
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H3083	F16H308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H3	F16H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a gearbox for self-propelled machines comprising a casing inside which there are located a primary shaft (1) equipped with a set (8) of gears of the latter, a secondary shaft (2) equipped with a set (9) of gears which are free to rotate around the said shaft (2), each gear (8) of the primary shaft (1) being held in permanent engagement with a gear (9) of the secondary shaft (2). According to the invention, the primary shaft (1) is driven in rotation by means of a worm, in engagement with a worm wheel (4) via a cone-type clutch in which the cones (3) which are mounted free to slide and kinematically come into engagement with conical bearing surfaces of the driven member and the rotational movement of the primary shaft (1) is transmitted to the secondary shaft (2) by means of a moving key (12) mounted on the secondary shaft. Application for lawn mowers. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLANCHARD ROBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLANCHARD, ROBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Gearbox for self-propelled machines such as lawnmowers,
of the type comprising a primary shaft (1) provided with a

gear train (8) mounted kinematically fixed in rotation with
this latter, this primary shaft (1) being mounted at least

partially within a housing within which is further arranged
a secondary shaft (2) provided with a gear train (9)

disposed coaxially and mounted freely in rotation about
said shaft (2), each gear (8) of the gear train of the

primary shaft (1) being respectively maintained in
permanent engagement with a gear (9) of the gear train of

the secondary shaft (2), the primary shaft (1) being driven
in rotation by means of a speed reduction mechanism

constituted by a driving member such as an endless screw
(7), in engagement with a driven member, such as at least

one toothed wheel (4) adapted to be coupled with or
uncoupled from said primary shaft by means of a clutch

mechanism carried by the primary shaft, the movement of
rotation of said primary shaft (1) being transmitted to the

secondary shaft (2) by means of a component (12) axially
movable along the secondary shaft and which, during its

axial displacement, comes into contact selectively with the
internal peripheral edge of a gear (9) of the gear train

(9) carried by the secondary shaft (2) so as selectively to
key this gear (9) to the secondary shaft (2),

characterized in that the primary shaft and the clutch
mechanism shaft are disposed within the housing, in that

the clutch mechanism is a cone clutch, whose cones (3),
freely slidably mounted and kinematically fixed in rotation

with the primary shaft, are disposed within an axial recess
of said driven member and come in the course of their

approach to each other into engagement with conical bearing
surfaces of said driven member and in that said movable

component (12) is a key (12) mounted on the secondary shaft
(2). 
Gearbox according to claim 1,

characterized in that the moving component is a key (12)
mount
ed on the secondary shaft (2), which key (12) having
the shape of a ratchet tooth being disposed within a

longitudinal groove provided in the secondary shaft (2) or
in a split ring (19) mounted fixedly on the secondary shaft

(2), this key (12) being displaceable axially by means of a
ring (10) sliding on the secondary shaft and mounted

fixedly to said key (12).
Gearbox according to claim 2,

characterized in that the key (12) constituting a selection
and control member for the engagement of the speed ratios

comes, during its axial displacement, into engagement with
a recess (15) provided in the internal peripheral edge of a

gear (9) carried by the secondary shaft and is maintained
within this recess by means of a return member (13).
Gearbox according to one of claims 2 and 3,

characterized in that the return member (13) maintaining
the key (12) in a recess provided in the internal

peripheral edge of a gear (9) is constituted by a leaf
spring interposed between the key and the bottom of the

longitudinal groove provided in the secondary shaft (2).
Gearbox according to one of claims 1 to 4,

characterized in that there is interposed between each gear
(9) of the gear train of the secondary shaft (2) a ring

(14) to avoid simultaneous keying of two gears with the
secondary shaft (2).
Gearbox according to one of claims 1 to 4,

characterized in that there is interposed between a gear
(8) of the primary shaft (1) and a gear (9) of the

secondary shaft (2) an intermediate pinion mounted on a
shaft fixed to the frame, said pinion in permanent

engagement respectively with the gear (8) of the primary
shaft (1) and the gear (9) of the secondary shaft (2) 

permitting the secondary shaft (2) to turn during selection
of the corresponding gear in the same direction as the

primary shaft (1).
Gearbox according to one of claims 1 to 6,

characterized in that the clutch mechanism comprises at
least two toothed wheels (4a, 4b) in engagement

respectively with at least one clutch cone (3a, 3b), said
toothed wheels being maintained kinematically fixed in

rotation by penetration of the teeth (16) projecting beyond
the front surface of at least one of the wheels into

interstices (17) of complementary shape of the front
surface of the wheel facing it so as to maintain between

said wheels a permanent contact without play in the
clutched position.
Gearbox according to claim 7,

characterized in that one of the wheels (4b) has a groove
(18) provided on one of its front surfaces so as to permit

at least one tooth to project so that it will penetrate the
interstice (17) between two teeth of the facing wheel.
Gearbox according to claim 8,

characterized in that the groove (18) is provided at a
variable height in the space comprised between the

circumference passing through the base of the teeth and the
circumference passing through the tips of the teeth.
Gearbox according to one of claims 7 to 9,

characterized in that the cone clutch mechanism comprises
at least four cones mounted freely slidable and

kinematically fixed in rotation with the primary shaft,
said pairs of cones being respectively disposed coaxially

in the interior of the axial bore of toothed wheels so as
to come, during their approach to each other, into

engagement with the conical bearing surfaces of said
wheels.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
