<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618028</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device with a radially movable shaft or pin clamped in a holder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B29034	B23B2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B29	B23B29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a device with a radially movable shaft or pin (12) clamped in a holder (6). The device has a location bore (15) which runs at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis (18) of the device and in which an adapted sleeve (16) sits in an axially displaceable manner, the outer circumferential surface of which runs at an angle in like manner and the inner circumferential surface of which is arranged in the form of a location bore for the shaft or bearing pin parallel to the longitudinal axis (18) of the device. In this arrangement, the axial adjustment of the sleeve (16) permits a radial adjustment of the shaft (12) or pin and thus of the tool or tool carrier, and clamping elements designed as clamped or screwed connection (19) are provided inside the holder from outside. The shaft or the pin or the sleeve can be locked via the clamping elements. The holder (6) has an encircling plane bearing surface (24) at the front end in the area of the mouth of the location bore. The plane bearing surface (24) extends radially at right angles to the longitudinal axis (18) of the device, and the length of the sleeve (16) is smaller than the depth of the location bore by an amount corresponding to the desired axial displacement, so that the sleeve is adjustable in the holder without axial adjustment of the clamped-in part. In order to permit radial adjustment in all directions, an eccentric sleeve (11) with a cylindrical outer circumference and an eccentrically arranged bore for accommodating the shaft (12) or bearing pin is arranged in the sleeve (16). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIDIA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIDIA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEIGENBUTZ WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEIGENBUTZ, WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Device with a radially movable pin or shaft (12) 
clamped in a holder (10, 32), in particular the shank 

(12) of a tool or tool support in a tool holder or of 
a bearing journal into a wall (32), which has a 

receiving hole (15, 34) running obliquely in relation 
to the longitudinal axis (18, 33) of the device, in 

which an adapted sleeve (16) sits to be axially 
displaceable, its external shell surface running 

obliquely in the same manner and its internal shell 
surface in the form of a receiving hole for the shank 

(12) or bearing journal being arranged parallel to the 
longitudinal axis (18, 33) of the device, wherein the 

axial displacement of the sleeve (16) enables a radial 
displacement of the shank (12) or journal and thus of 

the tool or tool support, and clamping elements 
constructed from the outside as a clamping or screw 

joint (19, 20, 21, 38) are provided inside the holder, 
by means of which clamping elements the shank or 

journal (12) or sleeve (16) may be locked in position, 
wherein in the region of the mouth of the receiving 

hole (15) on the face side, the holder has a 
circumferential plane abutment (24) which extends 

radially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis (18, 
33) of the device, and wherein the length of the 

sleeve (16) is shorter than the depth of the receiving 
hole (15) by an amount corresponding to the desired 

axial displacement, so that the sleeve (16) is 
displaceable in the holder (10) without axial 

displacement of the clamped part, characterised in 
that an eccentric sleeve (11) with a cylindrical 

external shell and with an eccentrically arranged hole 
(31) is arranged in the sleeve (16) to receive the  

 
shank (12) or bearing journal. 
Device according to Claim 1, characterised in that at 
its front end, the eccentric sleeve (11) has a Morse 

cone (26), the rear annular collar surface (25) of 
which lies flat on the ring-shaped plane abutment (24) 

in the region of the mouth of the receiving hole (15). 
Device according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the hole (31) of the eccentric sleeve is arranged 

offset relative to the eccentric sleeve axis by up to 
3/10 mm, preferably by 5/100 mm. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 to 3,
 
characterised in that the hole (31) of the eccentric 

sleeve (11) is of conical or cylindrical construction. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 to 4,
 
characterised in that the eccentric sleeve (11) has an 

annular groove (22) on its external shell (30) into 
which a clamp bolt (21) or its conical tip engages and 

clamps the eccentric sleeve (11) to the holder (10), 
said clamp bolt (21) being disposed in a threaded hole 

(19) of the holder (10), or that the Morse cone (26) 
of the eccentric sleeve (11) has at least one axial 

opening (42), preferably several equidistant openings 
(42), for a respective clamp bolt (21) to engage 

through, said clamp bolt (41) being disposed in a 
threaded hole of the holder (10) arranged 

perpendicular to the ring-shaped plane abutment (24) 
of said holder. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 to 5,
 
characterised in that the eccentric sleeve (11) has at  

 
least one threaded hole passing radially through its 

shell or axially through the Morse cone (26), and in 
said threaded hole a clamp bolt is disposed for 

clamping in position the shank (12) clamped into the 
eccentric sleeve (11) or the bearing journal. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 to 6,
 
characterised in that on its end in the direction of 

the longitudinal axis (33) of the device, the sleeve 
(16) has an external thread (35) which engages into an 

internal thread (37) of an adjusting nut (36) which 
may be fixed axially relative to the receiving hole 

(34). 
Device according to Claim 7, characterised in that the 
adjusting nut is constructed in a bell shape (36) with 

a clamp bolt (38) engaging centrally through it, the 
threaded shaft of which engaging into a central 

threaded hole of the eccentric sleeve (11) to secure 
it so that the flange of the eccentric sleeve (11) is 

able to press onto the plane abutment of the wall 
(32). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
