<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613855</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bottling machine for transparent containers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67C322	B65B5700	B67C302	G05D900	B65B5714	G01F23292	B65B330	B67C320	B67C328	G05D912	G01F23284	B65B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67C	B65B	B67C	G05D	B65B	G01F	B65B	B67C	B67C	G05D	G01F	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67C3	B65B57	B67C3	G05D9	B65B57	G01F23	B65B3	B67C3	B67C3	G05D9	G01F23	B65B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotating machine (1) for pouring drinks into transparent containers (3), having a multiplicity of circulating container points (2) which are distributed at intervals around its circumference and have filling elements (16), the control elements of which control the flow of drink and are electrically actuable, and having devices which are fixedly mounted alongside the filling machine for measuring the filling level in the containers in the region at which filling ceases (21) and for emitting locking signals to the control elements of those container points at which a container is filled up to a level (20) at which filling must cease and which, taking into consideration any dripping which may occur, will result in the desired level being reached, is characterised in that at least one video camera (14) is provided as a measuring device which covers a plurality of container points in its field of observation (15) and is connected to an image evaluation device (18) which is designed to control all the control elements and monitors and tracks the containers detected, as they pass through the field of vision, while determining the container points which are assigned to the detected containers in each case, measures the filling level reached in each case in at least a plurality of angular positions and emits the locking signal to the control element of the associated container point when a container has been filled up to the level at which filling must cease has been reached. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTMANN 
&
 HERBST MASCH GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTMANN + HERBST MASCHINEN- UND ANLAGENBAU GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASLER NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLBE WILFRIED DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUEHMANN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON KARSTEDT CARUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASLER, NORBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLBE, WILFRIED, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUEHMANN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON KARSTEDT, CARUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Rotating beverage filling machine (1) for 
transparent containers (3) with a plurality of 

spaced, rotating container stations (2) on its 
periphery with filling elements (16), whose control 

elements controlling the beverage flow are 
electrically controllable, and with devices 

stationarily arranged adjacent the filling machine 
(1) for measuring the filling level in the 

containers (3) in the region of the filling stop 
(21) and for sending closing signals to the control 

elements of those container stations (2) at which a 
container (3) reaches a stop level (20) which 

results in the desired level taking account of 
possible further flow, characterised in that at 

least one video camera (14) is provided as the 
measuring device which views a plurality of 

container stations (2) in its field of view (15) and 
which is connected to an image analysing device (18) 

which is constructed to control all the control 
elements and which continuously monitors the viewed 

containers (3) as they pass through the field of 
view (15) whilst determining the container stations 

(2) associated with the viewed containers (3), 
measures the filling level (19) reached at at least 

a plurality of angular positions and issues the 
closing signal to the control element of the 

associated container station (2) when the stop level 
(20) is reached in a container (3). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in Claim 1, 
characterised in that the image analysing device  

 
(18) determines at least one level (22) lower than 

the stop level (20) for the issue of throttling 
signals. 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the image 

analysing device (18) determines the angular 
position (21) when the stop level (20) is reached in 

the containers (3) and shifts the starting angle of 
the filling sector (F) in dependence thereon. 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in Claim 3, 
characterised in that the angular positions (21) at 

which the stop level (20) is reached are determined 
in association with individual container stations 

(2) and individual opening signals are given to the 
associated control elements in dependence on them 

during the next rotation of the filling machine (1). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in Claim 4, 
characterised in that the control of the 

commencement of filling is effected so that the 
desired level is reached at the end (10) of the 

usable filling sector (F). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that a camera 

(14) is arranged so as to be movable around the 
periphery of the filling machine (1). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of Claims 
1 to 5, characterised in that a plurality of cameras 

(14, 27, 29, 31) are arranged to view angular 
regions of the filling machine (1).  

 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that devices are 

provided for continuously determining the angular 
position of the filling machine (1) and for 

transmitting it to the image analysing device (18). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the image 

analysing device (18) detects filling elements lying 
outside the normal region as regards the filling 

parameters which are detected. 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the image 

analysing device (18) monitors the container 
stations (2) for the presence of containers (3). 
Beverage filling machine as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that for the 

purpose of filling with carbonated beverages the 
filling elements (16) have devices for 

depressurising the containers (3) within a 
depressurisation sector (E) of the filling machine 

(1) following the filling sector (F) and that at 
least one stationarily arranged video camera (27, 

29, 31) is provided, which views container stations 
(2) within the depressurisation sector (E) and/or in 

downstream container discharge devices (6, 9) of the 
filling machine, with image analysing devices (18) 

for detecting the foam pattern of the viewed 
containers (3) and for deriving control signals from 

it for controlling the depressurisation devices 
and/or the speed of rotation of the filling machine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
