<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631525</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR AUTOMATICALLY COATING OBJECTS WITH A SPRAYER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1208	G05B19414	G05B19408	G05B19414	G05B19408	B05B1212	G05B19418	B05B1302	G05B19418	B05B1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	G05B	G05B	G05B	G05B	B05B	G05B	B05B	G05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B12	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	G05B19	B05B12	G05B19	B05B13	G05B19	B05B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEGELEC AEG ANLAGEN UND AUTOMA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEGELEC AEG ANLAGEN- UND AUTOMATISIERUNGSTECHNIK GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISSEN HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISSEN, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Method for automatically coating objects with a
spraying device which includes at least one spraying

tool that is moved along paths with a 3/4-axis device
according to programs, while the objects are moved in

one direction, characterised in that programs with
which movement paths of the spraying tool are

determined as a function of speed and time with
respect to predetermined surfaces of particular form

and dimensions, as well as contour data with which
selective surfaces of said surfaces are related to the

contour of an object to be coated, are stored, and
that, during the movement of the object to be coated

along a path leading past the spraying tool, there are
superimposed on the contour data, as a function of the

respective surface present in the area of the spraying
tool and the contour of the object, the movement paths

of the surface, in order to generate a resulting path
to be covered by the spraying tool.
Method according to claim 1, characterised in that for
objects which include surfaces to be coated by the

spraying tool with identical movement paths determined
with respect to the dimensions and the shape of the

surfaces, the spacings of the movement paths relative
to the surfaces that are to be covered by the spraying

tool are determined by path point coordinates which
are dependent on the spacings of at least one contour

line on the respective surface with respect to a
coordinate axis extending in the transport direction

of the objects.
Method according to claim 2, characterised in that the
contour line is formed by a plane cutting the surface,

said plane being either the plane in which lie a first
coordinate axis and a second coordinate axis that

intersects the latter at right angles and passes
through the same point of origin and lies along the 

direction of displacement of the spraying tool with
respect to the object, or is parallel to said plane.
Method according to one or more of the foregoing
claims, characterised in that the movement paths are

modified as a function of the determined transport
velocity of the objects.
Method according to one or more of claims 2 to 4,
characterised in that the coordinate values of the

path points of the movement program provided for the
respective surface are predetermined in at least one

coordinate direction as a function of the spacings,
and that additional path points for the movement path

of the spraying tool are interpolated between adjacent
path points.
Method according to one or more of the foregoing
claims 2 to 5, characterised in that the movement path

of the spraying tool is determined with a program, as
a function of the length of the respective object, in

the one direction of a cartesian coordinate system
which corresponds to the transport direction, and that

the movement paths to be covered by the spraying tool
are adjusted in at least one direction extending

perpendicular to this direction by means of contour
data on the object which are loaded into the progress.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
