<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640555</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for filling containers with a liquid
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67C326	B67C328	B67C302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67C	B67C	B67C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67C3	B67C3	B67C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the case of a device for filling containers with a liquid, having a storage vessel (2), on the base (6) of which there are arranged a plurality of filling stubs (3) with a valve body (7) and a gas tube (9), the gas tube (9) is extended through the interior of the storage vessel (2). Seated in the gas tube is an electric level probe (10), the connection line (11) of which runs through the extension (15) and is connected to a control device (12) in that region of the extension (15) which projects out of the storage vessel (2). Consequently, the connection line is well protected against damage by way of container fragments, filling liquid, etc. and a high degree of functional reliability is achieved. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONSEDER MASCHF KRONES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONES AG HERMANN KRONSEDER MASCHINENFABRIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS WILHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS, WILHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for filling containers (1) with a liquid 
from a storage tank (2) on which there is disposed at 

least one filler neck (3) which is joined to the 
storage tank (2) via a vertical bore (4); the valve 

body (7) of a liquid valve (8) is set in the bore (4) 
so as to be able to move up and down, and running 

through the valve body (7) is a vertical gas pipe (9) 
in the interior of which is at least partly seated an 

electrical filling-level probe (10) which is linked 
to a control device (12) for an actuating means (13) 

operating on the valve body (7), and the gas pipe (9) 
is permanently joined to the valve body (7),
 
characterised in that the filler neck (3) is disposed 

on the lower face of the storage tank (2) and is 
connected via its vertical bore (4) to an opening (5) 

in the bottom (6) of the storage tank (2), that the 
gas pipe (9) is fitted with a tubular extension (15) 

which passes through the interior of the storage tank 
(2) and the cover (14) thereof, that the electrical 

filling-level probe (10) and/or the connecting lead 
(11) thereof passes through the extension (15) and is 

connected to the control device (12) in the portion 
that protrudes from the storage tank (2), that the 

extension (15) is mounted in gas-tight manner in the 
cover (14) of the storage tank (2) and is adapted to 

move up and down therein, and that the actuating 
means (13) for the valve body (7) of the liquid valve 

(8) is disposed on the upper face of the storage tank 
(2) and operates on the portion of the gas pipe (9) 

extension (15) that protrudes from the storage tank 
(2).  

 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the extension (15) has substantially the same cross-section 

as the gas pipe (9). 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the valve body (7) of the liquid valve (8) is 

constructed in one piece with the gas pipe (9) and/or 
the extension (15) thereof. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the portion of the gas pipe (9) 

extension (15) that protrudes from the storage tank 
(2) is connected via a control valve (16) and a 

tension gas line (17) to a tank for tension gas. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the tension gas line (17) opens into the upper 

portion of the storage tank (2). 
Apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, characterised in 
that the tension gas line (17) incorporates a 

bifurcation with a flow restrictor (19) which is 
joined via its own control valve (18) to the gas pipe 

(9) extension (15). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 4 to 6, 
characterised in that additional tanks (24 to 26) for 

gaseous or liquid media are connected via lines and 
control valves (20 to 23) to the portion of the gas 

pipe (9) extension (15) that protrudes from the 
storage tank (2). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 7, 
characterised in that opening into the filler neck 

(3) is a channel (27) which leads via a control valve 
(28) and a flow restrictor (29) into the open or into 

a tank (30).  
 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8, 
characterised in that opening into the filler neck 

(3) is a channel (27) which is joined via a control 
valve (31) to a tank (30) for a gaseous or liquid 

medium. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that the vertical bore (4) and the 

valve body (7) of the liquid valve (8) have 
substantially cylindrical casing portions, the casing 

portion of the valve body (7) being slightly smaller 
in diameter than the casing portion of the bore (4). 
Apparatus according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the cylindrical casing portions of the vertical 

bore (4) and of the valve body (7) have substantially 
the same length. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, characterised 
in that formed on the cylindrical casing portion of 

the valve body (7) is at least one spiral vane (32) 
which centres the valve body (7) movably in the bore 

(4). 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 12, 
characterised in that fixed to the bottom (6) of the 

storage tank (2) is at least one valve block (35) 
which in addition to the filler neck (3) contains at 

least the liquid valve (8), that fixed on the cover 
(14) of the storage tank (2) over the valve block 

(35) is a control block (39) which contains at least 
one tension gas valve (16), and that the return gas 

pipe (9) joins the control block (39) to the valve 
block (35) by means of its extension (15).  

 
Apparatus according to claim 13, characterised in 
that formed in the bottom (6) and in the cover (14) 

of the storage tank (2) are openings (5, 40) situated 
concentrically over one another, to which the valve 

block (35) and the control block (39) are 
respectively connected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
