<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647564</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and machine for aseptic filling of food products
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L207	A61L204	B65B5504	B65B5510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	B65B55	B65B55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For the aseptic filling of foods or semi-luxuries into pots consisting of plastic foil, in a sterile environment the pot foil (3) is plasticised in order to shape the pot and is subsequently deformed and the pot recesses (9') are filled and closed by means of a lid foil (17). Before the filling operation, in each case the pot foil (3) is loaded by means of steam in a length segment for sterilisation purposes and is cooled on its side located opposite the steam-loading region. The lid foil (17) sterilised before it is fed to the pot foil (3) is guided, after its sterilisation, together with the pot foil (3) in a germ-free environment until they are combined. For its sterilisation on both sides, the pot foil (3) is loaded with steam in the flat state, before its deformation, alternately in two successive treatment operations, in each case in the same length segment, and at the same time is cooled. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEA FINNAH GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEA FINNAH GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNAH JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNAH, JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the aseptic filling of foodstuffs or other 
edible products into tubs consisting of synthetic plastics 

sheet and in which, for shaping the tubs, the tub sheet (3) 
is plasticised and then shaped in a sterile environment and 

the tub recesses (9') are filled and sealed by a top foil 
(17), whereby, prior to the filling process, the tub sheet 

(3) is for sterilisation purposes exposed to steam over a 
portion of its length while on its side opposite the area 

which is exposed to steam, the tub sheet is cooled, the top 
foil (17) being sterilised prior to being fed to the tub 

sheet (3), and whereby, following their sterilisation and 
until they are combined, the top foil and tub sheet are 

conveyed in a sterile environment, characterised in that for 
its bilateral sterilisation, the tub sheet, while in its 

flat state and prior to being shaped, is alternately exposed 
to steam in two successive treatment processes affecting in 

each case the same portion of length, being cooled at the 
same time. 
A method for the aseptic filling of foodstuffs or other 
edible products into tubs consisting of synthetic plastics 

sheet in which, for shaping the tubs, the tub sheet (3) is 
plasticised and then shaped in a sterile environment and the 

tub recesses (9') are filled and sealed by a top foil (17), 
whereby prior to the filling process the tub sheet (3) is 

sterilised and for sterilisation of the top foil (17), this 
latter, prior to being fed to the tub sheet (3), is exposed 

to steam on both sides over one length portion, and whereby, 
following their sterilisation and until they are combined, 

the top foil and tub sheet are conveyed in a sterile 
environment, characterised in that for the top foil (17) 

which consists of a synthetic plastics material to be 
sterilised on both sides, and prior to its being fed to the 

tub sheet (3), the top foil (17) is, in two successive  
 

treatment processes, alternately exposed to steam over in 
each case the same length portion, being cooled thereby on 

its side opposite the area which is exposed to the steam. 
A method according to Claim 1, characterised in that the 
steam treatment of the tub sheet (3) takes place prior to 

its plasticisation. 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised in that 
the tub sheet (3) or top foil (17) has its area which is 

exposed to steam heated on its surface to approx. 120 to 
145°C, the temperature at the cooled surface of the sheet 

being limited to about 60°C. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 to 4, characterised in 
that the time for which the exposure to steam is maintained 

amounts to about 5 to 10 seconds. 
A machine for the aseptic filling of foodstuffs or other 
edible products, with a tub-shaping apparatus (15), a 

filling apparatus (6), a sealing apparatus (20), a 
sterilisation apparatus (12, 19) for the tub sheet and for 

the top foil and with conveying means for the cyclic 
movement of tub sheet and top foil, characterised in that 

the machine comprises as a sterilising apparatus (12, 19) 
for the tub sheet (3) and/or for the top foil (17) two 

serially disposed groups of plate-like tool parts which 
accommodate between them one length portion at a time of the 

flat tub sheet or top foil (3, 17), one tool part being 
constructed as a contact cooling plate (23, 24) while the 

opposite tool part is constructed as a steam-distributing 
plate (25, 26) and in the first group of tool parts the 

steam-distributor plate (25, 26) is associated with one side 
of the sheet and with the other side of the sheet in the 

second group.  
 
A machine according to Claim 6, characterised in that the 
steam-distributor plate (25, 26) has, for the steam, outlet 

orifices (28) distributed over its surface which faces the 
sheet (3, 17). 
A machine according to Claim 7, characterised in that the 
outlet orifices (28) are constructed as jets. 
A machine according to one of Claims 6 to 8, characterised 
in that the two tool groups (23, 25, 24, 26) form one 

enclosed sterilising unit (12) sealed in respect of the 
ambient and situated outside and upstream of a sterile 

tunnel (13) filled with sterile air and part of a filling 
machine (1), being disposed directly upstream of the said 

tunnel in the direction of movement of the sheet (3, 17) 
which is to be sterilised. 
A machine according to one of Claims 6 to 9, characterised 
in that for moving the sheet (3, 17) through the sterilising 

apparatus (12, 19, 19'), a separate feed device (33) is 
provided, by means of which, until it leaves the sterilising 

apparatus (12, 19, 19'), a movement independent of the feed 
movement through a main feed apparatus (38) can be imparted 

to the sheet in subsequent parts of the filling machine (1). 
A machine according to Claim 10, characterised in that the 
feed apparatus (33) for the sterilising apparatus(es) (12, 

19, 19') imparts to the tub or top foil (3, 17) feed 
movements in a timed sequence and with a path length which 

corresponds to a multiple of the timed sequence and path 
length of the feed device which the main feed apparatus (38) 

imparts to the tub sheet (3) in the subsequent areas of the 
filling machine.  

 
A machine according to Claim 10 and 11, characterised in 
that the sterile tunnel (13) has in the area following the 

sterilising apparatus (12, 19, 19') a widened out receiving 
space (35) for a supply loop (36) of tub and top sheet (3, 

17). 
A machine according to one of Claims 6 to 12, characterised 
in that whichever is the upper plate part (23, 26) of each 

tool group (23, 25 or 24, 26) of the sterilising apparatus 
(12, 19, 19') is supported in stationary manner while 

whichever is the bottom plate part (24, 25) can be moved 
upwards and downwards by means of a lifting drive 
and locked 
in its upper operating position by means of a locking 

device. 
A machine according to one of Claims 6 to 13, characterised 
in that each group of tool parts (23, 24, 25, 26) comprises 

plates having a working width and a working length 
corresponding at least to the width of the sheets (3, 17) 

and which correspond substantially to the path length of the 
feed movement imparted to the sheet (3, 17) by the feed 

apparatus (33). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
