<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611334</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CUTTING TOOL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B2714	B23B2722	B23B2700	B23B2714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B27	B23B27	B23B27	B23B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIDIA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIDIA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGUSTIN PAY JOSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGUSTIN PAY , JOSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Polygonal cutting insert for chip-forming machining 
having at least one face formed as a chip surface (10) 

with peripheral side surfaces which form clearance 
surfaces (12), the chip surface (10) having a central 

raised chip breaker (13) offset from a plane defined by 
the cutting edges (12) or from a chip-breaker groove (14) 

formed on or along the cutting edges and possibly having 
single raised portions,
 
characterized in that
 
the chip breaker (13, 48) is extended as at least one 

wedge-shaped longitudinal rib (15) in the chip runout 
region and has in longitudinal section and in cross 

section perpendicular thereto a convex shape free of sharp 
edges, the rib(s) (15) - in longitudinal section 

perpendicular to the cross section - running into the 
surrounding chip surface or chip-breaker groove (14) at a 

larger radius than in their upper region and are formed at 
their ends faced to the cutting corners as wedges and seen 

from a top view run out at an angle (33) smaller than 20°. 
Cutting insert according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the longitudinal ribs (15) have a substantially lower 

height than the chip breaker (49) or than the central 
chip-forming plane. 
Cutting insert according to claim 1 or 3, characterized in 
that the longitudinal rib (15), preferably two to five 

longitudinal ribs (15) per cutting edge, are symmetrical 
to a bisector (16) of the cutter corner angle and that 

their longitudinal axes (17) have a common intersection 
(18) on the chip breaker (13) and/or that the 

angle (19) between the longitudinal axes (17) of the 
longitudinal groove (15) and the bisector (16) of the 

cutting corner or between two longitudinal axes of 
neighbouring longitudinal ribs (15) is 0° or between 15° 

to 45°, preferably 15° to 30°.  
 
Cutting insert according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the longitudinal rib(s) (15) is (are) asymmetrical to 

the cutter-corner bisector and that their longitudinal 
axes (17) and/or their longitudinal axes (17) and the 

bisector have a common intersection on the chip breaker. 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that the longitudinal ribs (15) are of 

different lenghts. 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterized by a mirror-symmetrical arrangement of the 

chip breakers (48, 49, 15) relating to at least one 
central perpendicular to a line connecting two cutting 

corners. 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 6 
characterized by a central chip-forming plane (48) raised 

above an edge region adjacent to the cutting edge(s) and 
extending via a bevel (50) to the edge regions and/or to 

the cutter groove and also having nose-like projections 
(49) and longitudinal ribs (15) connected thereto, 

whereby the nose-like projections (49) are preferably 
higher than the longitudinal ribs (15) and/or have a 

surface lying in the same plane as the central chip-forming 
plane (48). 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the longitudinal ribs (15) end at a 

spacing (20) of from 0,05 to 0,8 mm, preferably 0,05 and 
0,3 mm from the cutting edge (12) and/or that the 

longitudinal ribs (15) are arranged in a chip-breaker 
groove (14) and their upper surfaces lie below the surface 

of the central chip breaker (13).  
 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 8, 
characterized in that the longitudinal ribs (15) have 

relating to the surrounding chip surface or the chip-breaker 
groove (14) a height (22) between 0,3 and 0,5 mm, 

preferably 0,3 to 0,08 mm, which is smaller than the 
height of the central chip breaker (13) relative to the 

cutting edge plane and/or that the convex shape of the 
longitudinal rib (15) has in the upper region a 

radius (23) of 0,1 to 0,5 mm, preferably 0,1 to 0,3 mm, 
whereby furthermore preferably the longitudinal ribs (15) 

extend at an angle (24) of at least 45° relative to the 
perpendicular (25). 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that the side surface (27) of the 

longitudinal ribs (15) form in cross section parallel to 
the cutting edge in the region of the chip surface or of 

the chip-breaker groove (14) an angle (26) between 80 and 
120°, preferably 90 to 100°. 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 10, 
characterized in that the longitudinal rib has in the 

region of the chip surface or the chip-breaker groove (14) 
a measured greatest base width (28) of from 0,2 to 1,5 mm 

and/or that the length (29) or the longitudinal ribs (15) 
is five to twenty times greater that their basis 

width (28). 
Cutting insert according to one of claims 1 to 11, 
characterized in that the central chip breaker rises 

relative to a plane defined by the cutting edges at an 
angle of 20 to 40° and/or is ball-shaped in the cutter 

corner region and has a convex upper surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
