<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647294</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-DRILLING HOLLOW RIVET
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B1908	F16B1910	F16B1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B19	F16B19	F16B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-drilling hollow rivet (10) has a bit (11) and a rivet sleeve (12) to hold a first and a second component (16, 17) together. In order to secure the components (16 and 17) rigidly together, a rivet hole (15) is drilled by the bit (11) in a first operation. The bit (11) is given a positive and force fit in the rivet sleeve (12) by means of ribs (19', 19''). At the outer periphery of a set heat (20) there are flat surfaces with which a setting device engages. The setting device rotates the self-drilling hollow rivet. The rotary forces are uniformly transferred by the self-drilling hollow rivet (12) to the bit (11) via the ribs (19, 19'') without the drill shaft's (18) breaking at the weakened point (19) during the drilling process. Once the drilling process is completed, the self-drilling hollow rivet (10) is set in a second operation in which the drill shaft (18) is pulled in the direction of the arrow (20'). Here, the claws of the setting device engage in the annular grooves (27). In this setting process the drill head (14) is pulled into the rivet sleeve (12) and the latter almost completely surrounds the drill head (14). The closing head is made and the hollow rivet is hermetically sealed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEHRING MANFRED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGE AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEHRING, MANFRED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGE AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPONER WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPONER, WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Self-drilling hollow rivet comprising a rivet bushing 
(12;30;44;52;62) exhibiting a set-head (20;45;53;63) on 

one end and being configurable as a closing head (23) on 
the other end, with a drill shaft (18;31;41;51) axially 

penetrating through the rivet bushing (12;30;44;52;62) 
which exhibits rotation carriers (19';35;42;56) on both 

ends of an intended breaking location (19;37;48;57) and 
on the one end is provided with a drill head (14;32) and 

on the other end at the drill shaft (18;31;41;51) is 
provided with tension carriers (27;49) for a setting 

apparatus, whereby the drill head (14;32) tapers towards 
the rivet bushing (12;44;52;62) or the rivet bushing 

section (30),
 
characterized in
 
that the rotation carriers (19';19";35;36;42;56) press 

into the material of the rivet bushing (12;30;44;52;62), 
that the rotation carriers (19';35;42;56) border, 

without exhibiting a shoulder, on the taper, that the 
set-head (20;45;53) exhibits at least two flattened 

surfaces (46,47;58,59;64,65) on the outer perimeter 
which run parallel to the plane of a drill axis (24), 

that the rotation carriers (19',19";35,36;42;56) are 
configured as rips which exhibit a triangular-shaped 

cross section and which are equally distanced from the 
surface of the driff shaft (18;31;41;51) along the 

longitudinal direction over nearly the entire length and 
that the drill shaft (18;31;41;51) is securely held in 

the rivet bushing (12;30;44;51;62). 
Self-drilling hollow rivet according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the drill shaft (18;31;41;51;62)  

 
and the drill head (14;32) are manufactured as a single 

piece and the drill head (14;32) as well as the drill 
shaft (18;31;41;51) are formed from a hardened material. 
Self-drilling hollow rivet according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that the rivet bushing (12;44,52) or 

the rivet bushing section (30) exhibit a sealing film on 
an inner wall (43) and a seal (22) is arranged below the 

set-head (20). 
Self-drilling hollow rivet according to one of the 
claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the flattened 

surfaces (46,47;58,59) stretch along the entire material 
thickness of the set-head (45;53) parallel to the axis 

of the rivet bushing (44;52) or that the surfaces 
(58,59) border on a shoulder (66) at the set-head (63). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
