<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620365</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Internal combustion engine with exhaust gas recirculation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B7502	F02M2507	F02B7502	F02M2507	F02B3700	F02B300	F02B306	F02B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02M	F02B	F02M	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B75	F02M25	F02B75	F02M25	F02B37	F02B3	F02B3	F02B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine with exhaust gas recirculation is proposed in which turbochargers are arranged, connected in parallel, in order to obtain an exhaust gas pressure which is greater than the pressure in the charge air line. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Internal combustion engine having an engine (1), a 
charging air line (3a, 4), a main exhaust gas line (5) 

for all cylinders of an exhaust gas recirculation line 
(16, 16a) and two exhaust gas turbochargers (7, 8), 

wherein the first exhaust gas turbocharger (7) is 
installed upstream of the engine as the main charger for 

the air and, parallel thereto, the second exhaust gas 
turbocharger (8) is installed downstream of the engine 

(1) as the secondary charger and the charging air is 
suppliable with simultaneous flow through a charging air 

cooler (15) to the engine (1), wherein the engine exhaust 
gases are divertable outwards via the turbine (10) of the 

first exhaust gas turbocharger (7) and the turbine (13a) 
of the second turbocharger (8) is drivable by the engine 

exhaust gas of an exhaust gas delivery line (12) branched 
off from the main exhaust gas line (5) and exhaust gas 

diverted downstream of the turbine (10) of the first 
turbocharger (7) via an exhaust gas suction line (14) is 

supplied to the compressor (13) of the second 
turbocharger (8) and that the exhaust gases thus 

compressed are suppliable via the exhaust gas 
recirculation line (16, 16a) to the charging air line (3, 

3a) and that said recirculated exhaust gas flow in the 
recirculation line (16, 16a) has a higher pressure (D) 

than the charging air, which is supplied to the engine 
(1) via the compressor (9) of the turbocharger (7) and 

has a pressure (d). 
Internal combustion engine according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the compressed exhaust gases of 

high pressure (D) are suppliable upstream of the charging 
air cooler (15) into the line (3) carrying the charging 

air. 
Internal combustion engine according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the compressed exhaust gases of 

high pressure (D) are suppliable downstream of the  
 

charging air cooler (15) into the line (3a) carrying the 
charging air. 
Internal combustion engine according to one of claims 1 
to 3, characterized in that an exhaust gas cooler (20) is 

disposed in the exhaust gas recirculation line (16) in 
front of the inlet into the charging air line (3a). 
Internal combustion engine according to one of claims 1 
to 4, characterized in that a respective pressure 

regulating valve (17 and 18) is disposed in the exhaust 
gas delivery line and the exhaust gas suction line 

(12 and 14). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
