<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615494</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOVABLE GLOVE DEPARTMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R706	E05B6519	E05B6512	B60R706	E05B6512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	E05B	E05B	B60R	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R7	E05B65	E05B65	B60R7	E05B65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDI NSU AUTO UNION AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDI AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEILICH MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUSCHANKO HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS, HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEILICH, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUSCHANKO, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Movable glove compartment for a motor vehicle, which 
is mounted so as to be swivelled and/or displaced in 

a frame (6) fitted to the dashboard, there being 
provided between the glove compartment (1) and the 

frame (6) a closure mechanism consisting of an 
actuatable lock portion (19) and a drop-down portion 

(18) cooperating therewith,
 
characterised in that the drop-down portion (18) is 

arranged in the rear area of the glove compartment 
(1) and the lock portion (19) is arranged opposite 

the drop-down portion on the frame (6), and that to 
actuate the lock portion (19) a remote control (23, 

24) having an actuating element on the dashboard is 
provided. 
Glove compartment according to claim 1, characterised 
in that the drop-down portion (18) is arranged in the 

middle of the rear boundary (4) of the glove 
compartment (1). 
Glove compartment according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the lock portion (19) 

incorporates a swivelling hook (19) and the drop-down 
portion a closure pin (18) which cooperates with said 

hook (19), that the hook (19) is adapted to swivel 
against spring force into a position in which the 

closure pin (18) is exposed, and at the point that 
comes into contact with the closure pin (18) when the 

glove compartment (1) is shut it has an inclined face 
(26) by means of which in cooperation with the 

closure pin (18) the hook (19) is swung against the 
spring force until the closure pin lodges in the hook 

(19).  
 
Glove compartment according to any of claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the remote control incorporates 

a cable (25) which acts on the lock portion (19). 
Glove compartment according to any of claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the remote control incorporates 

an electromagnet whose armature is joined to the lock 
portion (19). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
