<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HINGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05D300	E05D302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05D	E05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05D3	E05D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMKA BESCHLAGTEILE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMKA BESCHLAGTEILE GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUNGE FRIEDHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUERLAND MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUNGE, FRIEDHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUERLAND, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Hinge for supporting two structural parts, such as a
cabinet and its door or the like, which are held adjacent

to one another so as to be rotatable about a hinge axis,
having a hinge frame, which has two aligned eyes and is

disposed on the one structural part, and having a hinge
pin, which for connection of the structural parts

penetrates the eyes of the hinge frame and is connected
to the other structural part, characterized in that the

eyes (15) are fitted to the hinge frame (10) by means of
swivelling connecting rods (13) in such a way that the

eyes (15) are displaceable along the axis of the hinge
pin (17) and that the hinge pin (17) is non-rotatably

connected to the associated structural part and has a
configuration (19) which displaces the eyes (15) upon

rotation of the hinge pin (17).
Hinge according to claim 1, characterized in that the
hinge pin (17) has a portion (18) in the form of a flat

section for fastening to the associated structural part
and that the configuration (19) of the hinge pin (17) on

either side of said portion (18) takes the form of a
rotating spindle, which penetrates the eyes (15) of the

hinge frame (10).
Hinge according to claim 2, characterized in that, for
forming the rotating spindle, the flat section of the

portion (18) of the hinge pin (17) is bent into a spiral
shape, the spirals disposed at the two ends of the hinge

pin (17) penetrating the eyes (15) coupled to the hinge
frame (10).
Hinge according to one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in
that the eyes (15) are rotatably connected to the

associated connecting rods (13) and that the through-opening
(16) of the eyes (15) for the hinge pin (17) has 

a rectangular cross section of a dimension corresponding
to the dimensicns of the flat section portion (18) of the

hinge pin (17).
Hinge according to one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in
that, given adjacent-lying structural parts in the closed

position of the hinge, the eyes (15) are positioned at
the outer ends of the hinge pin (17) with extended

connecting rods (13) and the rotation of the hinge pin
(17) effects an opposing motion of the eyes (15) relative

to one another along the axis of the hinge pin (17).
Hinge according to one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in
that the hinge pin (17) is provided with a screw thread

and the eyes take the form of bushes (28) with a matching
internal thread which are seated on the hinge pin (17).
Hinge according to one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in
that the hinge pin (17) is provided with at least one

thread (29) for receiving and guiding a guide ball and
the associated eye takes the form of a bush (28) seated

on the hinge bolt (17) and containing a guide ball which
engages into the thread (29) of the hinge pin (17).
Hinge according to claim 7, characterized in that the
hinge pin (17) having a plurality of threads (29) and the

bush (28) have a plurality of associated guide balls.
Hinge according to one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in
that the connecting rods (13) between hinge frame (10)

and eyes (15, 28) are disposed in a scissors-like shape.
Hinge according to claim 9, characterized in that the
hinge frame (10) for guiding the scissors-like connecting

rods (13) takes the form of a double-C section rail,
which receives the bearing pins (32) of the connecting 

rods (13) and has a guide slot for embracing and guiding
the connecting rods (13).
Hinge according to claim 10, characterized in that the
hinge frame (10) takes the form of a U-shaped housing

(30) extending in a longitudinal direction of the hinge
and having, disposed at its open side, a releasable

locking device (31) for fixing the connecting rods (13)
together with the bearing pins (32) in the housing (30).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
