<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650855</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pneumatic radial tires and method of producing the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29D3006	B29D3006	B29D3020	B29D3020	B29D3032	B29D3036	B60C902	B60C902	B60C1500	B60C1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29D	B29D	B29D	B29D	B29D	B29D	B60C	B60C	B60C	B60C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29D30	B29D30	B29D30	B29D30	B29D30	B29D30	B60C9	B60C9	B60C15	B60C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pneumatic radial tire comprises a radial carcass 4 of 
plural rubberized plies extending between bead cores 5 

of the bead portions, in which at least one carcass ply 
of the rubberized plies is a turnup ply 4-1 extending 

between a pair of the bead cores 5 and wound around the 
bead core 5 from inside to outside, and the remaining 

carcass ply is a center-hollow down ply 4-2 constituted 
with a pair of rubberized ply segments extending from a 

position corresponding to each side region of the tread 
portion 3 other than a central region thereof beneath an 

inner surface of the belt up to a position corresponding 
to at least a side edge of an inner peripheral surface 

of the bead core 5 and develops the steering stability, 
ride comfortablility and weight reduction at higher 

level. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIDGESTONE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIDGESTONE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAEN TATSURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWASHIMA HARUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUYAMA FUMIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UEHARA YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUKOUCHI TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAEN, TATSURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWASHIMA, HARUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUYAMA, FUMIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UEHARA, YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUKOUCHI, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a pneumatic radial tire 
comprising a pair of bead portions, a pair of sidewall 
portions, a tread portion toroidally extending between the 
sidewall portions, a radial carcass of plural rubberized 
plies extending between bead cores of the bead portions, 
and a belt of two cross cord layers superimposed about a 
crown portion of the carcass and reinforcing the tread 
portion as well as a production method for forming a 
green case for uncured tire by assembling and building 
uncured members of radial carcass plies and bead core 
among the structural members of the above tire. In accordance with recent tendency of everyday 
high-speed running, relatively small-size four-wheeled 
vehicles such as passenger cars and the like are aimed 
at more improvement of steering stability inevitable in 
the safe running in addition to comfortable running. 
As a result, pneumatic radial tires finally controlling 
good or bad of such a performance are strongly demanded 
to develop an excellent steering stability.  As to the improvement of this steering 
stability, there have hitherto been taken various 
countermeasures. Particularly, it is fundamentally 
required to enhance lateral rigidity (lateral spring 
constant) as a characteristic showing a degree of 
resistance to lateral deformation in a rotating axial 
direction of the tire in the cornering or to enhance 
bending rigidity of a sidewall portion, so that it is 
common to use two or more plies as a radial carcass in 
this type of the tire. Because, the tire of this type 
is simultaneously required to fully maintain the ride 
comfortability against vibrations, so that it is common 
to use a rubberized ply of organic fiber cords having a 
low rigidity as a carcass ply and hence the use of one 
ply as a carcass ply is insufficient in order to ensure 
the lateral rigidity. As an example of the carcass structure using two 
or more plies, there is widely adopted a so-called 
simultaneous two-ply turnup structure in which carcass 
plies 4a (2 plies in an illustrated embodiment) are 
turned around a bead core 5 from inside of the tire 
toward outside thereof as shown in Fig. 4 at a right-half 
section in widthwise direction of the tire. 
In this structure, however, the lateral rigidity of the 
tire is obliged to fix to a compromising value by the 
adjustment of turnup height considering a balance with  
 
longitudinal rigidity (longitudinal spring constant) 
strongly contributing to the ride comfortability against 
vibrations, so that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a pneumatic radial tire comprising a pair of 
bead portions, a pair of sidewall portions, a tread 

portion toroidally extending between the sidewall 
portions, a radial carcass of plural rubberized plies 

extending between bead cores of the bead portions, and a 
belt of two cross cord layers superimposed about a crown 

portion of the carcass and reinforcing the tread portion, 
the improvement wherein at least one carcass ply of the 

rubberized plies is wound around a bead core from inside 
of the tire toward outside thereof to form a turnup 

portion as a turnup ply extending between a pair of the 
bead cores, and the remaining carcass ply is a center-hollow 

down ply constituted with a pair of rubberized ply 
segments in which each ply segment is arranged outside 

the turnup ply and extends from a position corresponding 
to each side region of the tread portion other than a 

central region thereof beneath an inner surface of the 
belt over an upper end of the turnup portion up to at 

least a position corresponding to a side edge of an 
inner peripheral surface of the bead core. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
 

a freely enlargeable main drum and a pair of auxiliary 
drums located adjacent to both sides of the main drum 

and freely expanding in a radial direction in which the 
main drum and auxiliary drums are rotated at the same 

outer diameter before the enlargement and the expansion, 
winding a pair of down ply segment members each having a 

length equal to an outer peripheral length of the 
auxiliary drum on the auxiliary drums, respectively, 

distributing a continuous turnup ply member having a 
width wider than a width of the main drum on both sides 

of the main drum with respect to a widthwise central 
periphery thereof at an equal width and winding around 

the down ply segment members by a round to join both 
free cut ends to each other, enlarging the main drum to 

a diameter larger than a maximum wound diameter of the 
ply segment member on the auxiliary drum to place a pair 

of bead core members on ply member portions laid on both 
stepped side portions of the enlarged main drum, expanding 

the auxiliary drum and at the same time moving a 
pair of cylindrical pushing members alerted outside each 

auxiliary drum in a rotating axial direction thereof 
inward in the rotating axial direction to forcedly 

conduct compression deformation of the expanded 
auxiliary drum inward in the rotating axial direction, 

whereby each ply member located outside the bead core is 
 

turned around the bead core to form a cylindrical green 
case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely enlargeable main drum and a pair of auxiliary 

drums located adjacent to both sides of the main drum 
and freely expanding in a radial direction in which the 

main drum and auxiliary drums are rotated at the same 
outer diameter before the enlargement and the expansion, 

distributing a turnup ply member having a length equal 
to an outer peripheral length of the main drum and a 

width wider than a width of the main drum on both sides 
of the main drum with respect to
 a widthwise central 
periphery thereof at an equal width and wound on the 

main drum, piling a pair of continuous down ply segment 
members on both end portions of the turnup ply member 

and winding on the auxiliary drums by a round to join 
both free cut ends of the down ply segment member to 

each other, enlarging the main drum to a diameter larger 
than a maximum wound diameter of the ply segment member 

on the auxiliary drum to place a pair of bead core 
members on ply member portions laid on both stepped side 

portions of the enlarged main drum, expanding the 
 

auxiliary drum and at the same time moving a pair of 
cylindrical pushing members alerted outside each 

auxiliary drum in a rotating axial direction thereof 
inward in the rotating axial direction to forcedly 

conduct compression deformation of the expanded 
auxiliary drum inward in the rotating axial direction, 

whereby each ply member located outside the bead core is 
turned around the bead core to form a cylindrical green 

case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely enlargeable main drum and a pair of auxiliary 

drums located adjacent to both sides of the main drum 
and freely expanding in a radial direction in which the 

main drum and auxiliary drums are rotated at the same 
outer diameter before the enlargement and the expansion, 

piling a pair of down ply segment members each having a 
length equal to an outer peripheral length of the 

auxiliary drum on lower surfaces of both sides of a 
continuous turnup ply member having a width wider than a 

width of the main drum while the turnup ply member is 
distributed on both sides of the main drum with respect 

to a widthwise central periphery thereof at an equal 
 

width, winding them together by a round of the turnup 
ply member to join both free cut ends of the turnup ply 

member to each other, enlarging the main drum to a 
diameter larger than a maximum wound diameter of the ply 

segment member on the auxiliary drum to place a pair of 
bead core members on ply member portions laid on both 

stepped side portions of the enlarged main drum, 
expanding the auxiliary drum and at the same time moving 

a pair of cylindrical pushing members alerted outside 
each auxiliary drum in a rotating axial direction 

thereof inward in the rotating axial direction to 
forcedly conduct compression deformation of the expanded 

auxiliary drum inward in the rotating axial direction, 
whereby each ply member located outside the bead core is 

turned around the bead core to form a cylindrical green 
case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely enlargeable main drum and a pair of auxiliary 

drums located adjacent to both sides of the main drum 
and freely expanding in a radial direction in which the 

main drum and auxiliary drums are rotated at the same 
outer diameter before the enlargement and the expansion, 

 
piling a pair of continuous down ply segment members on 

upper surfaces of both sides of a turnup ply member 
having a length equal to an outer peripheral length of 

the main drum and a width wider than a width of the main 
drum while the turnup ply member is distributed on both 

sides of the main drum with respect to a widthwise central 
periphery thereof at an equal width, winding them 

together by a round of the down ply segment member to 
join both free cut ends of the down ply segment member 

to each other, enlarging the main drum to a diameter 
larger than a maximum wound diameter of the ply segment 

member on the auxiliary drum to place a pair of bead 
core members on ply member portions laid on both stepped 

side portions of the enlarged main drum, expanding the 
auxiliary drum and at the same time moving a pair of 

cylindrical pushing members alerted outside each 
auxiliary drum in a rotating axial direction thereof 

inward in the rotating axial direction to forcedly 
conduct compression deformation of the expanded 

auxiliary drum inward in the rotating axial direction, 
whereby each ply member located outside the bead core is 

turned around the bead core to form a cylindrical green 
case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
 

rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 
outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 

a freely enlargeable main drum and a pair of auxiliary 
drums located adjacent to both sides of the main drum 

and freely expanding in a radial direction in which the 
main drum and auxiliary drums are rotated at the same 

outer diameter before the enlargement and the expansion, 
winding a composite ply member formed by sticking both 

end portions of a turnup ply member with end portions of 
a pair of down ply segment members at a given overlapping 

quantity by a round to join both free ends to 
each other, enlarging the main drum to a diameter larger 

than a maximum wound diameter of the ply segment member 
on the auxiliary drum to place a pair of bead core 

members on ply member portions laid on both stepped side 
portions of the enlarged main drum, expanding the 

auxiliary drum and at the same time moving a pair of 
cylindrical pushing members alerted outside each 

auxiliary drum in a rotating axial direction thereof 
inward in the rotating axial direction to forcedly 

conduct compression deformation of the expanded 
auxiliary drum inward in the rotating axial direction, 

whereby each ply member located outside the bead core is 
turned around the bead core to form a cylindrical green 

case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely deformable main drum expanded by filling of 

pressurized fluid, a pair of freely enlargeable pushing 
members against an inner peripheral surface of a bead 

core member located adjacent to both sides of the main 
drum and a pair of freely deformable auxiliary drums 

located adjacent to the pushing members and expanded by 
filling of pressurized fluid in which the main drum, 

auxiliary drums and pushing members are rotated at the 
same outer diameter before the enlargement and the 

expansion, winding a pair of down ply segment members 
each having a length equal to an outer peripheral length 

of the auxiliary drum on the auxiliary drums, respectively, 
distributing a continuous turnup ply member 

having a width wider than a width of the main drum on 
both sides of the main drum with respect to a widthwise 

central periphery thereof at an equal width and winding 
around the down ply segment members by a round to join 

both free cut ends to each other, enlarging the pushing 
members to strongly sandwich the ply members between the 

outer peripheral surface of the enlarged pushing member 
and the inner peripheral surface of the bead core member, 

 
and at the same time filling a pressurized fluid in each 

of the drums to expandably deform the drums, and moving 
the pushing members inward in a rotating axial direction 

of the drum to narrow a distance between the pair of the 
bead core members and a distance between the pair of the 

auxiliary drums, whereby the ply members located outside 
the bead core member are turned around the bead core 

member by the expansion deformed portion of the auxiliary 

drum and the turned ply member portions are pressed on 
the ply member existing on the main drum to form a 

toroidal green case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely deformable main drum expanded by filling of 

pressurized fluid, a pair of freely enlargeable pushing 
members against an inner peripheral surface of a bead 

core member located adjacent to both sides of the main 
drum and a pair of freely deformable auxiliary drums 

located adjacent to the pushing members and expanded by 
filling of pressurized fluid in which the main drum, 

auxiliary drums and pushing members are rotated at the 
same outer diameter before the enlargement and the 

expansion, distributing a turnup ply member having a 
 

length equal to an outer peripheral length of the main 
drum and a width wider than a width of the main drum on 

both sides of the main drum with respect to a widthwise 
central periphery thereof at an equal width and winding 

on the main drum, piling a pair of continuous down ply 
segment members on both end portions of the turnup ply 

member and winding on the auxiliary drums by a round to 
join both free cut ends of the down ply segment member 

to each other, enlarging the pushing members to strongly 
sandwich the ply members between the outer peripheral 

surface of the enlarged pushing member and the inner 
peripheral surface of the bead core member, and at the 

same time filling a pressurized fluid in each of the 
drums to expandably deform the drums, and moving the 

pushing members inward in a rotating axial direction of 
the drum to narrow a distance between the pair of the 

bead core members and a distance between the pair of the 
auxiliary drums, whereby the ply members located outside 

the bead core member are turned around the bead core 
member by the expansion deformed portion of the 

auxiliary drum and the turned ply member portions are 
pressed on the ply member existing on the main drum to 

form a toroidal green case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
 

rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 
outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 

a freely deformable main drum expanded by filling of 
pressurized fluid, a pair of freely enlargeable pushing 

members against an inner peripheral surface of a bead 
core member located adjacent to both sides of the main 

drum and a pair of freely deformable auxiliary drums 
located adjacent to the pushing members and expanded by 

filling of pressurized fluid in which the main drum, 
auxiliary drums and pushing members are rotated at the 

same outer diameter before the enlargement and the 
expansion, piling a pair of down ply segment members 

each having a length equal to an outer peripheral length 
of the auxiliary drum on lower surfaces of both sides of 

a continuous turnup ply member having a width wider than 
a width of the main drum while the turnup ply member is 

distributed on both sides of the main drum with respect 
to a widthwise central periphery thereof at an equal 

width, winding them together by a round of the turnup 
ply member to join both free cut ends of the turnup ply 

member to each other, enlarging the pushing members to 
strongly sandwich the ply members between the outer 

peripheral surface of the enlarged pushing member and 
the inner peripheral surface of the bead core member, 

and at the same time filling a pressurized fluid in each 
of the drums to expandably deform the drums, and moving 

 
the pushing members inward in a rotating axial direction 

of the drum to narrow a distance between the pair of the 
bead core members and a distance between the pair of the 

auxiliary drums, whereby the ply members located outside 
the bead core member are turned around the bead core 

member by the expansion deformed portion of the 
auxiliary drum and the turned ply member portions are 

pressed on the ply member existing on the main drum to 
form a toroidal green case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
a freely deformable main drum expanded by filling of 

pressurized fluid, a pair of freely enlargeable pushing 
members against an inner peripheral surface of a bead 

core member located adjacent to both sides of the main 
drum and a pair of freely deformable auxiliary drums 

located adjacent to the pushing members and expanded by 
filling of pressurized fluid in which the main drum, 

auxiliary drums and pushing members are rotated at the 
same outer diameter before the enlargement and the 

expansion, piling a pair of continuous down ply segment 
members on upper surfaces of both sides of a turnup ply 

member having a length equal to an outer peripheral 
 

length of the main drum and a width wider than a width 
of the main drum while the turnup ply member is 

distributed on both sides of the main drum with respect 
to a widthwise central periphery thereof at an equal 

width, winding them together by a round of the down ply 
segment member to join both free cut ends of the down 

ply segment member to each other, enlarging the pushing 
members to strongly sandwich the ply members between the 

outer peripheral surface of the enlarged pushing member 
and the inner peripheral surface of the bead core 

member, and at the same time filling a pressurized fluid 
in each of the drums to expandably deform the drums, and 

moving the pushing members inward in a rotating axial 
direction of the drum to narrow a distance between the 

pair of the bead core members and a distance between the 
pair of the auxiliary drums, whereby the ply members 

located outside the bead core member are turned around 
the bead core member by the expansion deformed portion 

of the auxiliary drum and the turned ply member portions 
are pressed on the ply member existing on the main drum 

to form a toroidal green case for an uncured tire. 
A method of producing a green case used in the 
production of a pneumatic radial tire as claimed in 

claim 1, which comprises assembling uncured members of 
rubberized cord plies and bead core for the tire on an 

outer peripheral surface of a forming drum consisting of 
 

a freely deformable main drum expanded by filling of 
pressurized fluid, a pair of freely enlargeable pushing 

members against an inner peripheral surface of a bead 
core member located adjacent to both sides of the main 

drum and a pair of freely deformable auxiliary drums 
located adjacent to the pushing members and expanded by 

filling of pressurized fluid in which the main drum, 
auxiliary drums and pushing members are rotated at the 

same outer diameter before the enlargement and the 
expansion, winding a composite ply member formed by 

sticking both end portions of a turnup ply member with 
end portions of a pair of down ply segment members at a 

given overlapping quantity by a round to join both free 
ends to each other, enlarging the pushing members to 

strongly sandwich the ply members between the outer 
peripheral surface of the enlarged pushing member and 

the inner peripheral surface of the bead core member, 
and at the same time filling a pressurized fluid in each 

of the drums to expandably deform the drums, and moving 
the pushing members inward in a rotating axial direction 

of the drum to narrow a distance between the pair of the 
bead core members and a distance between the pair of the 

auxiliary drums, whereby the ply members located outside 

the bead core member are turned around the bead core 
member by the expansion deformed portion of the 

auxiliary drum and the turned ply member portions are 
 

pressed on the ply member existing on the main drum to 
form a toroidal green case for an uncured tire. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
