<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611634</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi purpose knife
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26B500	B26B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26B5	B26B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-purpose knife is shown and described which takes the form of an elongated handle, from each end of which there can optionally be extended a blade (29, 30), each blade (29, 30) being supported by inherently displaceable blade supports (27, 28) which can be locked in their pushed-inwards basic position. To ensure that only one of the two blades (29, 30) can be extended at any one time, provision is made for an actuating slide (15) to engage between the two blade holders (27, 28) by means of which slide (15) in each case one or other of the blade holders (27, 28) can be moved outwards against the resistance of a restoring spring (31) and for the actuating slide (15) to be gripped in the basic position in the direction of movement between the two manually operated alternating stops (39, 40), only one of which can be moved into the release position at any one time. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOLFCRAFT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOLFCRAFT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEGEN KLEMENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEGEN, KLEMENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Multipurpose knife in the form of an oblong handle, 
from each at the two ends of which a blade (29, 30) 

can be selectively extended, which are each supported 
by separately displaceable blade holders (27, 28) 

which can be locked in their inwardly pushed normal 
position, characterised in that between the two blade 

holders (27, 28) an operating slide (15) engages, with 
which in each case the one or other blade holder (27, 

28) is movable towards the outside against the force 
of a return spring (31), and that in the normal 

position the operating slide (15) is enclosed in its 
direction of movement between two manually operable 

alternating limit stops (39, 40) of which always only 
one can be moved into the release position. 
Multipurpose knife according to Claim 1, characterised 
in that the alternating limit stops (39, 40) are 

arranged at the ends of a rocker (37). 
Multipurpose knife according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the operating slide (15) 

consists of a slide base (19) guided in the knife and 
of a grip part (14) capable of being pushed down into 

the slide base (19) against the force of a restoring 
spring (22), that in the normal position the grip part 

(14) engages by a tooth construction (17) in a row or 
teeth (18) formed on the base body (1) of the knife 

and is displaceable only in its depressed position, in 
which its tooth construction (17) is disengaged from 

the row of teeth (18), and on release again engages by 
its tooth construction (17) with the row of teeth (18) 

for locking its then position of advancement. 
Multipurpose knife according to Claim 3, characterised 
in that at its lower end the grip part (14) engages by  

 
a hook (34, 35) in each case in interlocking 

receptacles (36) of the two blade holders (27, 28) 
located in the normal position and that the hooks (34, 

35) come out of engagement with the blade holders (27, 
28) when the grip part (14) is pushed down and that 

after advancement of one (27) of the blade holders and 
release of the grip part (14) the grip part interlocks 

again with the advanced blade holder (27). 
Multipurpose knife according to one of the Claims 1 to 
4, characterised in that the blade holder return 

spring (31) is stretched between the two blade holders 
(27, 28). 
Multipurpose knife according to one of the Claims 3 to 
5, characterised in that the knife housing consists of 

a shell-shaped base body (1), a central cover (2) and 
two closure slides (3, 4) at the ends, that the teeth 

of the row of teeth (18) are oriented towards the 
cover (2), a guide slot for the grip part (14) of the 

operating slide (15) being hollowed out between the 
base body (1) and the cover (2), and that the rocker 

(37) is mounted on the cover (2). 
Multipurpose knife according to Claim 6, characterised 
in that on the outside of the base body (1) a 

detachable storage cover (48) extending over the most 
part of the length of the handle is fastened which 

covers a storage space sufficient for the 
accommodation of at least two spare blades (49, 50) 

arranged one behind the other in the longitudinal 
direction. 
Multipurpose knife according to Claim 7, characterised 
in that at its longitudinal sides the storage cover 

(48) is let in between two raised enclosing edges (51, 
52) of the base body (1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
