<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614634</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A tip-up wall seat
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47C906	A47C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47C	A47C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47C9	A47C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tip-up wall seat has a one-piece backrest (12) which has a planar rear side (14) and from the front side of which project bearing blocks (28) for providing a pivoted connection, between which bearing blocks the backrest (12) has an approximately horizontal stop face (30). The one-piece seat panel (32) is movable about the pivoted connection between a tipped-up rest position (R) and a pivoted-down sitting position, in which the seat panel (32) bears with a stop end (34) on the stop face (30) of the backrest (12). The stop face (30) extends from the front side to the rear side (14) of the backrest (12) approximately at the level of the pivoted connection and is an integral part of a peripheral, rear-side supporting edge (36) of the backrest (12), which delimits the lower end of the backrest (12) between the bearing blocks (28), which extend downwards beyond the stop face (30) over a length which approximately corresponds to the distance of the stop end (34) of the tipped-up seat panel (32) from the pivoted connection. This design of the tip-up wall seat prevents the accumulation of liquid residues on parts of the same. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRIATEC KERAMIK KUNSTSTOFF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRIATEC AG KERAMIK- UND KUNSTSTOFFWERKE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERS GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERS, GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Tip-up wall seat (10) of plastics material, 
particularly for baths or shower cubicles, with a 

one-piece backrest (12), which has a flat rear 
surface (14) for fastening to a wall and projecting 

from whose ergonomically shaped front surface (16) 
there are substantially perpendicularly extending 

bearing brackets (26, 28) for arranging a horizontal 
pivotal connection (38) between the backrest (12) 

and a seat plate (32) in the vicinity of the lower 
end (20) of the two side edges (22, 24) of the 

backrest, between which bearing brackets the 
backrest (12) has an approximately horizontal 

engagement surface (30) in the vicinity of the 
pivotal connection (38), whereby the one-piece seat 

plate (32) is movable about the pivotal connection 
(38) between a folded up rest position (R) and a 

folded down sitting position (S) in which the seat 
plate (32) engages the engagement surface (30) of 

the backrest (12) with an abutment end (34) which 
projects beyond the pivotal connection (38),
 
characterised in that the engagement surface (30) 

extends from the front surface (16) to the rear 
surface (14) of the backrest (12) approximately at 

the height of the pivotal connection (38) and is an 
integral component of a peripheral, rear support 

edge (36) of the backrest (12), which defines the 
lower end of the backrest (12) between the 

bearing brackets (26, 28), which extend downwardly 
beyond the engagement surface (30) by a length which 

approximately corresponds to the distance of the 
abutment end (34) of the folded up seat plate (32) 

from the pivotal connection (38).  
 
Tip-up wall seat as claimed in Claim 1, 
characterised in that the front surface (16) of the 

backrest (12) is curved forwardly towards the lower 
end with respect to its upper end (42) and 

terminates in a horizontal edge (44) to which the 
support edge (36) forming the engagement surface 

(30) is fixed inclined downwardly and towards the 
rear surface (14). 
Tip-up wall seat as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the seating surface (50) of 

the seat plate (32) is of flat construction to 
above its pivotal connection (38) but then gradually 

slopes away downwardly and rearwardly and terminates 
in an engagement ledge (54) which defines an acute 

angle with the horizontal and forms a rear, rounded 
edge (56) at the height of the pivotal connection 

(38). 
Tip-up wall seat as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the thickness of the seat 

plate (32) increases progressively at the underside 
(48) from its front end (46) to its abutment end 

(34), whereby the underside (48) of the seat plate 
(32) at the front end (46) of the same is arranged 

approximately in a plane with the pivotal connection 
(38) of the seat plate (32). 
Tip-up wall seat as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the bearing brackets (26, 28) 

on the two arcuate side edges (22, 24) of the 
backrest (12) project increasingly from its average 

height (58) to the pivotal connection (38), incline 
back slightly below the pivotal connection  

 
(38) and are limited at the lower end by an end 

surface (62), which forms approximately a right 

angle with the rear surface of the backrest (12). 
Tip-up wall seat as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 5, 
characterised in that the greatest depth between the 

rear surface (14), defined substantially by the 
support edge (36), of the backrest (12) and a front 

surface (40) of the bearing brackets (26, 28) is 
provided approximately at the height of the 

engagement surface (30) which makes possible the 
arrangement of the pivotal connection (38) at a 

distance from the rear surface (14) of the backrest 
(12) which is approximately one and a half times the 

length by which the abutment end (34) of the seat 
plate (32) projects beyond the pivotal connection 

(38). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
