<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657196</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in or relating to clarifiers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2100	B01D2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D21	B01D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Clarifier especially for liquid-treatment plants, consisting of a clarification tank fed with liquid from a feed channel and of a spillway, characterised in that it comprises a liquid-distribution system consisting of a plurality of calibrated openings (16, 16') made respectively in partitions (18) of liquid-entry chambers (20) fed from the said spillway (14) so that each opening receives a determined fraction of the liquid throughput, the said openings being arranged quincuncially in at least two horizontal rows. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEGREMONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEGREMONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMATI ABDELLATIF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMATI, ABDELLATIF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Clarifier, notably for treatment installations for
liquids constituted of a settling tank (10) supplied

with liquid from a feed channel (12) and of an overflow
(14), the feed of the liquid being performed by means of

the overflow (14), positioned between the feed channel
(12) and inlet chambers (20) for the liquid, the liquid

being fed into the settling tank (10) by means of a
plurality of calibrated openings (16, 16') which are

formed, respectively, in the partitions (18) of the
inlet chambers (20) for the liquid and supplied with

liquid from said overflow (14) in such a way that each
opening receives a determined fraction of the flow rate

of the liquid, said openings (16, 16') being disposed
along at least two horizontal rows of different levels,

the openings of each row being offset with respect to
the openings of the adjacent row, the lower row of

openings (16) being disposed at a height lying between
1/3 H and 2/3 H, where H is the height of the liquid in

the settling tank (10) and the upper row of openings
(16') being disposed at a height greater than 2/3 H and

sufficiently below the free surface of the liquid
contained in the settling tank.
Clarifier according to claim 1, characterized in that
the lowest row of horizontal openings (16) is

positioned, with respect to the floor (22) of the
settling tank (10), at a level chosen in such a way as

to prevent the development of a bottom current capable
of perturbing the bed of settled material deposited on

the floor.
Clarifier according to claim 1, characterized in that
the highest row of horizontal openings (16') is 

positioned, with respect to the surface of the liquid in
the settling tank, at a level chosen in such a way as to

prevent any surface current likely to propagate very far
without mixing with the remainder of the fluid.
Clarifier according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the distribution system for the

liquid comprises, in addition, a step (24) above the
floor (10), the height of which is calibrated so as to

prevent any perturbation of the bed of settled materials
deposited on the floor.
Clarifier according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that each of said openings (16, 16') is

provided with means for regulating and distributing the
velocity of the jet (28).
Clarifier according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that each of the inlet and energy

dissipation chambers (20) is supplied with liquid by the
feed channel (12) by means of an adjustable sloping

strip (26).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
