<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624487</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Swinging and sliding door for vehicles, particularly for public transport vehicles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J506	E05D1510	E05D1510	B60J506	E05F1500	B61D1902	E05F1518	B61D1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	E05D	E05D	B60J	E05F	B61D	E05F	B61D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J5	E05D15	E05D15	B60J5	E05F15	B61D19	E05F15	B61D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sliding door which can swing out for vehicles, particularly for public transport vehicles. Arranged on the inside of the door leaf (2), essentially in the region of the horizontal centre, is a runner rail (4) which runs horizontally and in which a roller guide (5) engages. The roller guide (5) is mounted in a holder (6) which is connected fixedly to the vehicle body. When the door is being opened, the door leaf (2), which is placed on the door frame (1) as a "cover", is initially guided outwards in a first movement step (Ö1) in order then in a second movement step to be displaced laterally on the roller guide (5). The elastically designed door leaf (2) is pretensioned in such a manner that, as a result of the pretensioning force, as the side edges of the door leaf are being placed onto the mating surfaces of the door frame (1), a contact pressure is produced which ensures that the door is closed all around. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BODE 
&
 CO GEB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEBRUEDER BODE 
&
 CO. GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Swing-out sliding door for vehicles, in particular for 
public transport vehicles, having a door frame (1) 

disposed in an opening in the side wall of the vehicle 
body and a door leaf (2), which is provided at its outer 

edges with a circumferential seal (3) and, for opening 
the door, in a first motional step (Ö1.1) is initially 

moved out of the closed position into a displacement 
position and then in a second motional step (Ö2) is 

displaced in a horizontal direction laterally into the 
open position, wherein the direction of movement of the 

first motional step (Ö1.1) is exclusively at right angles 
to the direction of displacement of the second motional 

step and wherein disposed at the inside of the door leaf 
(2) substantially in the region of the horizontal centre 

is a horizontally extending runner rail (4), which is 
firmly connected to the door leaf (2) and into which 

engages a roller guide (5), which is disposed inside the 
door opening in a region, which is immediately adjacent 

to the vertical side edge of the door frame (1) lying in 
opening direction, at the height of the runner rail (4) 

and is supported in a mounting (6) so as to be 
displaceable in the direction of the first motional step, 

wherein the mounting (6) is firmly connected to the 
vehicle body (1) and the door leaf (2), which is designed 

so as to be at least partially elastic in the direction 
of the first motional step (Ö1.1), is prestressed in such 

a way that, when the side edges of the door leaf (2) 
which are provided with the circumferential seal (3) are 

applied against the counter-surfaces of the door frame 
(1), the middle region of the door leaf (2) is movable 

counter to the elastic prestressing force and with 
simultaneous deformation a predetermined distance in the 

closing direction of the first motional step (Ö1.1), 
characterized in that the roller guide (5) is supported 

in an intermediate mounting (6.2) so as to be 
displaceable in the direction of the first motional step 

(Ö1.1) and said intermediate mounting (6.2) is supported  
 

on the mounting (6) firmly connected to the vehicle body 
so as to be displaceable in a direction (Ö1.2), which is 

at right angles to the direction of the first motional 
step (Ö1.1) and at right angles to the direction of the 

second motional step (Ö2). 
Sliding door according to claim 1, characterized in that 
it takes the form of an externally operating sliding 

door, wherein the first motional step (Ö1) of the opening 
movement is effected in an outward direction and by 

virtue of the prestressing of the door leaf (2) in the 
open state of the door the side edges of the door leaf 

(2) are offset in an inward direction relative to the 
middle region. 
Sliding door according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the intermediate mounting (6.2) is connected to the 

mounting (6) by a lifting spindle (14), which is drivable 
by a first electric motor (15). 
Sliding door according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the door drive for moving the door leaf (2) in the 

direction of the horizontal part of the first motional 
step (Ö1.1) comprises a second electric motor (10), which 

is disposed on the intermediate mounting (6.2) and drives 
the roller guide (5), which is guided in a horizontal 

direction (Ö1.1) in a guide (6.1-7) connected to the 
intermediate mounting (6.2), by means of a rack-and-pinion 

gear (8-9). 
Sliding door according to claim 4, characterized in that 
the first and second electric motors (15, 10) may be 

activated simultaneously. 
Sliding door according to one of claims 1 to 5, 
characterized in that the mounting (6) is fastened to a 

vertical side post of the door frame (1).  
 
Sliding door according to one of claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that the door drive for moving the door 

leaf (2) in the second motional step (Ö2) comprises a 
contactless electric linear motor (13), which is disposed 

on the roller guide (5) and directly drives the runner 
rail (4). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
