<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Height adjustable return loop fitting for safety belts
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2218	B60R2220	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R22	B60R22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to produce a vertically adjustable deflection fitting for safety belts having a rail which can be fastened to the side of the body for arrangement in motor vehicles, the said rail having pairs of holding hooks which can be inserted in perforations on the sides of the column, which fitting is able to absorb large tensile forces, it is proposed that the perforations for a pair (5) of holding hooks take the form of a bay (6), for each holding hook (5) to have an extension region (11, 12) which is aligned on the back of the rail (3) transversely with respect to the longitudinal direction of the rail, the frame formed in this manner from the holding hooks (5) and the extensions (11, 12) being capable of being inserted into the bay (6) of the column (2). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHMIDT GMBH R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R. SCHMIDT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENZEL WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENZEL, WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Motor vehicle having a coachwork part, a B-column or 
C-column and having height-adjustable return anchorage, 

attached thereto, for seatbelts for fitting in the motor 
vehicle, comprising a bar which can be mounted in a 

positionally fixed manner on the coachwork part or the 
column and a carriage, guided with latchable adjustment 

on the bar, as anchorage for the return anhorage, wherein 
the bar has a retaining hook pair which projects 

orthogonally from the peripheral edges of the bar to the 
back of the bar, which retaining hook pairs are 

insertable into column-side perforations or perforations 
in the coachwork part, characterized in that the column-side 

perforation or perforation in the coachwork part is 
formed as window recess (6) for a retaining hook pair 

(5), in that the first retaining hook (5) of a retaining 
hook pair has an extension region (11) which adjoins the 

unsupported end of the retaining hook (5), and the second 
retaining hook (5) of the retaining hook pair has an 

extension region (12) which adjoins the supported end of 
the retaining hook (5), in that both extension regions 

(11, 12) are directed transversely to the bar 
longitudinal extension at the back of the bar (3) and 

bear by means of their unsupported end on the supported 
end of the first retaining hook (5) or on the unsupported 

end of the second retaining hook (5), wherein the frame 
formed in this way from the retaining hooks (5) and the 

extensions (11, 12) is insertable in the window recess 
(6) of the column (2) or into a similar coachwork part 

and, with bar (3) inserted in the recess (6) and 
displaced in the longitudinal direction of the bar, the 

retaining hooks (5) engage over the one peripheral edge 
of the recess (6), which peripheral edge is directed 

transversely to the longitudinal direction of the bar and 
is situated at the bottom in the required vertical 

installation position.  
 
Motor vehicle according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the first retaining hook (5), together with 

extension (11), is formed by a roughly L-shaped material 
strip which is formed integrally with the bar (3) and is 

bent through 90째 towards the rear of the bar (3) around 
the end of the short limb (13) and whose long limb is 

extends so as to be directed parallel to the bar (3) to 
form the retaining hook (5) in the region where it 

adjoins the short limb, wherein its unsupported end, 
which forms the extension region, is bent through 90째 so 

as to be directed transversely to the longitudinal 
extension of the bar towards the second retaining hook 

(5). 
Motor vehicle according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that the second retaining hook (5), 

together with extension (12), is formed by a roughly T-shaped 
material strip which is formed integrally with the 

bar (3) and which is bent through 90째 around the end of 
the root part (14) of the T-shaped towards the back of 

the bar (3), wherein the one end of the transverse web of 
the T-shape extends so as to be directed parallel to the 

first retaining hook (5) and forms the second retaining 
hook (5), while the other end of the transverse web of 

the T shape, which transverse web forms the extension 
region (12), is bent through 90째 transversely to the 

longitudinal extension of the bar so as to be directed 
towards the short limb (13) of the L-shaped material 

strip. 
Motor vehicle according to one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that the slot (15) formed between the 

retaining hooks (5) and the extension regions (11, 12), 
on the one hand, and the bar (3), on the other hand, is 

slightly wider than corresponds to the material thickness 
of the column (2) in the region of the window recess (6).  

 
Motor vehicle according to one of Claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that the bar (3) has, near its two 

longitudinal ends and in the central longitudinal region, 
retaining hook pairs (5) and in that those regions of the 

columns (2) or similar coachwork parts which can be 
engaged over by the hooks (5) are formed without 

reinforcement. 
Motor vehicle according to one of Claims 1 to 5, 
characterized in that at least three hook pairs are 

formed, of which two pairs are disposed near the bar ends 
and one pair is disposed roughly centrally between them. 
Motor vehicle according to one of Claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that that end of the bar (3) which is 

uppermost in the installation direction is extended 
beyond the hooks (3) at that point and, in said region 

(7), can be pierced by a headed screw which can be 
attached to the coachwork column (2) or coachwork part. 
Motor vehicle according to one of Claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the hooks (5), together with the 

extension regions, are formed from angled peripheral 
edges of the bar (3). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
