<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cylinder lock
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B1500	E05B2900	E05B2910	E05B2700	E05B2904	E05B1516	E05B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B15	E05B29	E05B29	E05B27	E05B29	E05B15	E05B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The cylinder lock has a keyway which is intended for receiving a flat key. Arranged on the wide sides of the flat key are guide grooves which have codings and which serve for the positioning of blocking tumblers (8). These tumblers (8) are guided in the rotor of the cylinder lock and consist of two components (12, 13) which are non-positively or positively connected to one another. The second component (13) comprises a driver (11) which projects into the keyway and which cooperates with the guide grooves of the key. This second component (13) consists of wear-resistant material, thereby improving the lifetime and operating capacity of the lock. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERCHTOLD AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R. BERCHTOLD AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VONLANTHEN BENNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VONLANTHEN, BENNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Cylinder lock (1) with a stator (2) and a rotor (3), 
which can rotate in this stator (2) and has a key 

channel (4), wherein guides (7) are disposed in the 
rotor (3) approximately at a right angle to the 

longitudinal axis of the key channel (4) and 
approximately parallel to the broad sides (6) of the 

key channel (4) for tumblers (8) with a locking pin 
part (9), a plurality of tumblers (8) are mounted in a 

mobile manner in these guides (7) and each tumbler (8) 
comprises a follower (11) which projects into the key 

channel (4) and co-operates with guideways in the 
broad sides of a key, characterised in that the 

tumblers (8) are formed in two parts and consist of 
two components (12, 13), the first component (12) 

comprises the parts of the tumbler (8) with at least 
the locking pin part (9) and a guide part (10) which 

are guided in the guides (7), and the second component 
(13) comprises connecting elements (14) for connection 

to the first component (12) and the follower (11), and 
the two components (12, 13) are non-positively or 

positively connected together. 
Cylinder lock according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the second component (13) with the follower (11) is 

inserted in a recess (15) in the first component (12) 
and connected to the first component (12) via this 

recess (15). 
Cylinder lock according to claim 1 or 2, characterised 
in that the recess (15) in the first component (12) is 

a stepped hole (18), this stepped hole (18) is worked 
into the tumbler (8) from the front side (16), which 

is directed towards the key channel (4), of the 
tumbler (8), the second component (13) is inserted in 

this stepped hole (18) from the front side (16), which 
is directed towards the key channel (4), approximately 

at a right angle to the longitudinal axis (19) of the  
 

tumbler (8) and comprises a stop shoulder (20), which 
bears against the offset (21) of the stepped hole 

(18), and an end region (22) of the second component 
(13) projects out of the first component (12) and 

forms the follower (11). 
Cylinder lock according to claim 1 or 2, characterised 
in that the recess (15) in the first component (12) 

consists of a through-hole (26) and a cavity (27), 
which is worked into the tumbler (8) from the rear 

side (17), which is directed away from the key channel 
(4), of the tumbler (8), the second component (13) is 

inserted in this recess (15) from this rear side (17), 
the second component (13) comprises a shoulder (28) 

with a stop face (29), which bears against the bottom 
face (30) of the cavity (27), and an end region (31) 

of the second component (13) projects out of the first 
component (12) at the front side (16) of the tumbler 

(8) and forms the follower (11). 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the second component (13) with 

the follower (11) consists of a wear-resistant 
materiai. 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the first component (12) with 

the locking pin part (9) and the guide part (10) of 
the tumbler (8) consists of brass and the second 

component (13) with the follower (11) is formed from 
hardened steel. 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 2 to 6, 
characterised in that the second component (13) with 

the follower (11) is pressed into the recess (15) in 
the first component (12).  

 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 2 to 6, 
characterised in that the connection between the 

second component (13), which is placed in the recess 
(15) in the first component (12), and the first 

component (12) consists of a glued joint. 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 2 to 8, 
characterised in that the diameter of the end region 

(31), which forms the follower (11), of the second 
component (13) of the tumbler (8) is smaller or at 

most the same as that of the adjoining region (32), 
which is inserted in the recess (15) in the first 

component (12). 
Cylinder lock according to one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that the follower (11) is disposed 

centrally or eccentrically with respect to the end 
faces (23, 24) of the guide part (10) of the tumblers 

(8). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
