<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615667</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT FOR THE OFF-MAINS SWITCHING OF CONTROL DEVICES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47C2000	A47C2004	G05B1904	G05B1904	H02B100	H02B124	H02H312	H02H312	H02J906	H02J906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47C	A47C	G05B	G05B	H02B	H02B	H02H	H02H	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47C20	A47C20	G05B19	G05B19	H02B1	H02B1	H02H3	H02H3	H02J9	H02J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOCH DIETMAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOCH, DIETMAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH DIETMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH, DIETMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
for control devices which can be connected to an AC mains 

supply via cables (11) and which are provided with a 
mains-bound voltage source, comprising a transformer (1) 

and a rectifier circuit (8), for generating the internal 
operating potential, characterised by a relay (12), which 

is spatially separated from the control device and located 
in the mains lead or in a mains plug designed as a plug-in 

power supply unit and is provided with at least one 
relay-actuated switch which is in the OFF position when 

not excited and is located in the mains-side supply lead 
(11) and by an auxiliary power source (9, 10) which is 

wired in parallel with the mains-bound voltage source (7, 
8) and is connected to the control input of the relay (12) 

via a switch (3 to 6) which triggers the functions of the 
control device. 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to Claim 1, characterised in that the auxiliary 

power source connected in parallel to the mains-bound 
voltage source (7, 8) is designed as a capacitor (9). 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to Claim 2, characterised in that a bridging 

switch connected in parallel with the relay contacts, or 
a means for manual operation of the relay contacts, is  

 
provided. 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to Claim 1, characterised in that the auxiliary 

power source connected in parallel to the mains-bound 
voltage source (7, 8) is designed as a battery (10). 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to Claim 1, characterised in that the auxiliary 

power source connected in parallel to the mains-bound 
voltage source (7, 8) consists of a capacitor (9) which 

has a battery (10) connected in parallel. 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to one of the Claims 1 to 5, characterised by a 

push-button (3 to 6), connected to the control input of 
the relay (12). 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to one of the Claims 1 to 6, characterised in 

that an intermittently closing switch is located in the 

battery line. 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to one of the Claims 1 to 7, characterised in 

that a relay-actuated switch is located in the connecting 
lead of the auxiliary power source, this switch being 

connected to relay (12) and in the ON position when relay 
(12) is not excited. 
Arrangement for isolating control devices from the mains 
according to one of the Claims 1 to 8, characterised in 

that the relay (12) has two relay-actuated switches for 
bipolar switching of the mains-side supply lead (11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
