<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Articulation with backlash elimination for seat with tilting backrest
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47C1025	B60N220	B60N2235	B60N222	A47C1026	A47C1022	B60N222	B60N202	B60N2235	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47C	B60N	B60N	B60N	A47C	A47C	B60N	B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47C1	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	A47C1	A47C1	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The articulation comprises a stationary flange (21) integral with the seat part (11), and a moving flange (22) associated with the backrest (12), a bearing (30) made of male (31) and female (32) parts, a catch (40) made of a stationary stop piece (41), of a moving latch (42) and of an elastic urging means (43) and a control (50) acting on the latch (42) against the elastic urging (43). The articulation is such that at least one of these male (31) and female (32) parts has a non-circular configuration and that the stop piece (41) has a cam profile and the latch (42) has a cam follower profile and that the bearing (30) and the lock (40) are placed relative to one another in such a way that when the cam and cam follower are pressed against each other, the male (31) and female (32) parts tend to move relative to one another in the direction which takes up any play between them.   Application especially to vehicle seats. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CESA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CESA COMPAGNIE EUROPEENNE DE SIEGES POUR AUTOMOBILES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOURREY FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARGE NATHALIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOURREY, FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARGE, NATHALIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Articulation without play for a seat (10) with a seat
surface (11) and with a tilting seat back (12), which may

be moved between an erect position and a folded down
position in relation to the seat surface (11), said

articulation being of the type comprising a mounting (20)
formed by a fixed plate (21) integral to the seat surface

(11) and a moveable plate (22) connected to the seat back
(12), a bearing (30) formed by a male part (31) and a

female part (32) freely cooperating with one another with
play, one of which being supported by one of the plates

(21, 22) and the other supported by the other plate (21,
22), a locking means (40) formed by a fixed arresting

element (41) and a moveable drop latch (42) cooperating
with one another, one of which being supported by one of

the plates (21, 22) and the other supported by the other
plate (21, 22), and also formed by an elastic stressing

means (43) acting on the drop latch (42) and tending to
press the latter against the arresting element (41) in

order to immobilise the seat back (12) in the erect
position, and a control means (50) acting on the drop latch

(42) against the elastic stressing means (43) to separate
the drop latch (42) from the arresting element (41) so as

to be able to tilt the seat back (12) from its erect
position into its folded down position, characterised in

that at least one of these male(31) and female parts (32)
of the bearing (30) has a non-circular configuration so as

to define two V-shaped contact zones of the male parts (31)
and female parts (32), that the arresting element (41) of

the locking means (40) has a cam profile and the drop latch
(42) of the locking means (40) has a cam follower profile

designed to cooperate with that of the cam of the arresting
element (41), and that the bearing (30) and the locking

means (40) are positioned relative to one another so that
when the cam and cam follower of the arresting element (41) 

and the drop latch (42) of the locking means (40) are
pressed one against the other by the elastic stressing

means (43), the male part (31) and female part (32) of the
bearing (30) tend to be displaced relative to one another

in the direction absorbing the play between these male (31)
and female (32) parts, the bearing (30) resting balanced by

the V-shaped contact zones of the male (31) and female (32)
parts.
Articulation according to Claim 1, characterised in that
the female part (31) has a wedge-shaped configuration with

two oblique sides.
Articulation according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterised
in that the male part (31) has two non-parallel flanks.
Articulation according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the male part (31) of the bearing

(30) is supported by the fixed plate (21) and the female
part (32) of the bearing (30) is supported by the moveable

plate (32).
Articulation according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the arresting element (41) of the

locking means (40) is supported by the fixed plate (21) and
the drop latch (42) of the locking means (40) is mounted so

as to tilt on the moveable plate (22).
Articulation according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the control means (50) comprises a

pivoting lever (51) with an arm (511), that the drop latch
(42) of the locking means (40) comprises a branch (421)

which cooperates with this arm (511) and which is subjected
to the action of the elastic stressing means (43). 
Application of an articulation in accordance with any one
of the preceding claims to a seat (10) additionally

equipped with an adjusting device (60) for inclination of
the seat back (12) relative to the seat surface (11),

wherein said control means (50) has two opposing directions
of action, one direction in which it acts solely on the

locking means (40) to enable the seat back (12) to tilt
from its erect position into its folded down position, and

another direction in which it acts solely on the adjusting
device (60) to allow a change in the inclination of the

seat back (12) in relation to the seat surface (11) of the
seat (10).
Application of an articulation in accordance with any one
of the preceding claims to a vehicle seat, in particular a

seat of a land motor vehicle.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
