<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An automatic loading device for photographic films, in developing machines.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03D1300	G03D1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03D	G03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03D13	G03D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The device (10) comprises an external casing (11) and a 
sliding drawer table (12) set in motion by a relative 

drive (15, 16, 17). The table (12) is divided by a 
longitudinal gap (13) and carries, on one side of the 

gap, a shuttle (22) housing the roll (23) of film, a 
product bar code reader (33), systems (19; 34, 38) by 

which the shuttle (22) is translated respectively in a 
longitudinal direction and a transverse direction, and 

a guillotine (41) by which the end of the film (30) is 
trimmed square; the part of the table on the opposite 

side of the gap (13) carries a sheath (42) serving to 
accommodate the film leader (43). The casing (11) also 

houses a vertical baffle (63) supporting reels (64) of 
adhesive tape (84). As the table (12) slides into the 

casing (11), the film (30) is automatically trimmed, 
brought into correct matching association with the 

leader (43) and then spliced by portions of adhesive 
tape (84) applied to both sides of the film (30) and 

the leader (43). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAN MARCO IMAGING SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAN MARCO IMAGING SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCI GIOSUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANT DANNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCI GIOSUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANT DANNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a device such as will 
allow of loading photographic films automatically into 
developing machines. The prior art embraces developing machines by which 
photographic films are processed continuously and 
automatically. Initially, these machines were employed principally in 
professional photographic laboratories for developing 
large quantities of photographic material. Thereafter it became a widening trend for such machines 
to be utilized likewise in non-specialist commercial 
enterprises, for example large stores or supermarkets. 
This trend has given rise to a demand for machines with 
increasing levels of automation, which require minimal 
manning and which can be operated easily even by staff 
possessing no specialist skills or with no particular 
training. Nonetheless, the operation of loading photographic film 
in developing machines of current design is effected 
normally by hand and brought about conventionally in  
 
one of two ways, or more precisely, without or with the 
aid of a take-up device commonly described as a leader. 
In the first instance, the end of the film is trimmed 
by means of a transverse cut, effected manually, then 
inserted directly into a suitable device by which it is 
drawn onto a path through the chemical treatment baths 
of the machine and the successive drying chamber, the 
feed motion along the entire path generated by rollers 
exhibiting annular parts of a flexible material which 
engage the lateral edges of the film; in the second 
instance, by contrast, the end of the film is joined in 
suitable fashion to the leader and the film then drawn 
onto and fed along the selfsame path in conventional 
manner. The first solution, while simple, requires that the 
film be trimmed with a certain precision; this done, 
the roll of film to be developed must be positioned in 
a suitable light-excluding container with the trimmed 
end inserted in a suitable gripping device in readiness 
for introduction into the machine, then finally the 
light-excluding container is closed and the operating 
cycle can begin. If the insertion step is not effected with sufficient 
precision, the strip of film may run skew to a greater 
or lesser degree in relation to the prescribed path, or  
 
alternatively, it can happen that the lateral edges of 
the film become damaged due to various possible causes, 
so that in this case likewise the strip of film can be 
made to deviate subsequently from the prescribed path 
and the film itself will suffer irreparable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1) An automatic loading device for photographic films, 
in developing machines, characterized in that it 

comprises an external casing (11) open on at least one 
side, also a drawer table (12) accommodated slidably in 

the casing, set in motion by relative drive means (15, 
16, 17, 18) and affording a longitudinal gap (13) in 

the side directed toward the casing (11), equipped on 
one side of the gap with means (22) in which to house a 

roll (23) of photographic film, means (33) capable of 
reading a bar code marked on the roll (23), means (19, 

34) by which the means (22) housing the roll (23) of 
film are translated respectively in a longitudinal and 

a transverse direction, and means (41) for trimming the 
end of the film (30) square, and on the opposite side 

of the gap (13) with means (42) in which to accommodate 
a leader (43), and rectilinear meshing means (45, 46); 

in that the external casing (11) further accommodates a 
removable vertical baffle (63) positioned to coincide 

with the longitudinal gap (13) in the drawer table (12) 
and supporting means (64, 73, 74) by which to dispense 

adhesive tape (84), set in motion by gears (77, 78) and 
designed to apply discrete lengths of the adhesive tape 

(84) severed by suitable cutting means (65) to the two 
opposite faces of the matched ends of the film (30) and 

 
the leader (43), as well as affording guide means (58, 

62) positioned to interact with the means (34) by which 
the roll (23) of film is translated in the transverse 

direction, also a port (87) communicating with the 
developing machine (61), and alongside the port, feed 

means (85, 86) by which the leader (43) and the film 
(30) are directed into the developing machine (61), 

wherein the vertical baffle (63) is positioned in such 
a way as to enter the longitudinal gap (13) afforded by 

the drawer table (12) as the table is directed into the 
casing (11), while concurrently the means (34) by which 

the means (22) housing the roll (23) are translated in 
the transverse direction will be displaced by the guide 

means (58, 62) to the point at which the leading end of 
the film (30) cut previously by the trimming means (41) 

is matched with the tail end (55) of the leader (43), 
whereupon the means (64) dispensing the adhesive tape 

(84) are caused through the interaction of the relative 

gears (77, 78) with the rectilinear meshing means (45, 
46) afforded by the drawer table (12) to splice the 

matched edges of the film (30) and the leader (43), and 
the leading end (54) of the leader (43) is taken up by 

the feed means (85, 86) and directed through the port 
(87) communicating with the developing machine (61); 

and in that it further comprises a control element (93) 
 

which, as the trailing end of the film (30) is fully 
extracted from the roll (23), locking fast and pulling 

against the action of return means (40) associated with 
the transverse translation means (34), is operated by 

these same means (34) in such a way as to activate the 
trimming means (41) a second time, with the result that 

the trailing end of the film (30) is cut and separated 
from the roll (23), and the transverse translation 

means (34) are allowed to regain their former position 
through the agency of the return means (40). 
2) A device as in claim 1, wherein the sliding drawer 
table (12) is set in motion manually, relative to the 

external casing (11). 
3) A device as in claim 1, wherein the drive means 
associated with the sliding drawer table (12) comprise 

a lead screw (15) mounted rotatably to the casing (11), 
coupled with a lead nut (16) incorporated into the 

drawer and connected to a geared motor (17) by way of 
gears (18). 
4) A device as in claim 1, wherein the casing (11) 
exhibits a boxlike structure in the shape of a right 

parallelepiped easily associated with any developing 
machine, and the drawer table (12), likewise of right 

parallelepiped shape, is mounted slidably in the casing 
(11) by way of precision telescopic runners (14). 
5) A device as in preceding claims, wherein the gap 
(13) afforded by the sliding drawer table (12) departs 

from the side directed toward the vertical baffle (63) 
accommodated removably in the casing (11) and extends 

longitudinally through a distance corresponding to the 
length of the vertical baffle (63). 
6) A device as in preceding claims, wherein means for 
housing the roll of film consist in a shuttle (22) of 

hollow embodiment fashioned from two elements (24, 25) 
both exhibiting an "L" shape in cross section, hinged 

together along a horizontal axis, which are furnished 
with supports (26) and spring means (27) designed to 

restrain the roll (23) parallel to the longitudinal 
axis of the drawer table (12), and with openings (28, 

29) respectively affording a passage to the emerging 
film (30) and readably exposing the bar code marked on 

the roll (23). 
7) A device as in preceding claims, wherein means by 
which the roll of film is translated in a longitudinal 

direction comprise a horizontal shelf (19) extending 
longitudinally along one flank of the drawer table (12) 

and furnished with longitudinal channels (20) serving 
as guides for respective flanged sliding edges (21) 

projecting from the shuttle (22) in which the roll (23) 
is accommodated. 
8) A device as in preceding claims, wherein means for 
reading a bar code marked on the roll (23) of film 

consist in an optical device (33) housed in the body of 
the drawer table (12) and positioned in alignment with 

a window (32) let into the vertical flank wall adjacent 
to the longitudinal shelf (19), which is designed to 

read the bar code exhibited by the roll (23) occupying 
the shuttle (22) and generate a signal enabling the 

operation of the device (10) only if the chemical and 
physical specifications of the photographic film (30) 

are compatible with the developing machine (61). 
9) A device as in preceding claims, wherein transverse 
translation means comprise a carriage (34) occupying a 

common plane with the horizontal shelf (19), and a 
transverse track (38) extending at right angles from 

the shelf (19) to the longitudinal gap (13) in the 
drawer table (12), the carriage (34) in turn comprising 

longitudinal edges with channels (35) identical to and 
aligned with the channels (20) of the shelf (19) and 

transverse edges with further channels (36) disposed at 
right angles to the first channels (35), designed to 

couple slidably with corresponding ways (37) projecting 
from the walls of the transverse track (38), also a 

wheel (39) associated with the outermost longitudinal 
face of the carriage (34), rotatable about a vertical 

 
axis and designed to interact with the guide means (58) 

afforded by the casing (11), and a return spring (40) 
by which the underside of the carriage (34) is anchored 

elastically to the transverse track (38). 
10) A device as in preceding claims, wherein means by 
which to trim the end of the photographic film consist 

in a guillotine (41) situated at the internal end of 
the transverse track (38) accommodating the movement of 

the carriage (34), occupying a position adjacent to the 
longitudinal gap (13) afforded by the sliding drawer 

table (12), which comprises a first blade (47) mounted 
fixed in a horizontal position, and a second blade (48) 

mounted pivotably in relation to the first blade (47) 
and operated by an electromagnetic device (49). 
11) A device as in preceding claims, wherein means in 
which to accommodate the leader (43) consist in a 

horizontal sheath (42) extending transversely to the 
longitudinal axis of the sliding drawer table (12) and 

coaxial with the transverse track (38) accommodating 
the movement of the carriage (34), of which the length 

is such that the take-up lugs (54) of the leader (43) 
project from the relative mouth (52), and of which the 

rear end (53) allows the tail end (55) of the leader 
(43) to emerge and extend toward the longitudinal gap 

(13) in the drawer table (12) and is furnished with 
 

stops (56) and a proximity sensor (57) of which the 
function is respectively to ensure correct positioning 

of the leader (43) and to enable the operation of the 
loading device (10) only after the leader (43) has been 

correctly inserted in the sheath (42). 
12) A device as in preceding claims, wherein the 
rectilinear meshing means consist in a horizontal arm 

(45) projecting from a longitudinal ridge (44) afforded 
by the drawer table (12), of which the underside is 

embodied with a rack tooth profile (46) and the free 
end extends toward the casing (11) in such a way that 

the gears (77, 78) of the means (64) for dispensing the 
adhesive tape (84) are engaged by the rack (46) when 

the drawer table (12) is directed into the casing (11). 
13) A device as in preceding claims, wherein the 
vertical baffle (63) housed removably in the casing 

(11) affords a slot (69) extending longitudinally and 
at right angles from the outermost vertical edge to 

connect with a rectangular opening (70), and serves to 
support two reels (64) of adhesive tape (84) mounted 

rotatably about respective horizontal axes, and between 
the longitudinal slot (69) and the rectangular opening 

(70), two pinch wheels (73, 74) disposed one above the 
other and rotatable about respective horizontal axes, 

of which the lower wheel (73) is freely rotatable about 
 

a fixed axis and the upper wheel (74) mounted rotatably 
to the end of a rocking lever (75) pivotably associated 

with a horizontal fulcrum and tensioned by a spring 
(76) in such a way that the relative upper wheel (74) 

remains firmly in contact with the lower wheel (73), 
the upper wheel (74) being driven in rotation about its 

own axis concurrently with the dispensing direction of 
the adhesive tape (84) by two gears (77, 78) mounted 

rotatably to the opposite side of the baffle (63), in 
such a way that when the dra
wer table (12) slides into 
the casing (11), the matched edges of the film (30) and 

the leader (43) are caused to enter the longitudinal 
slot (69) afforded by the baffle (63), the gears (77, 

78) are engaged in meshing contact by the rack arm (45) 
of the drawer table (12), and the adhesive tapes (84) 

are caused by the pinch wheels (73, 74) to decoil from 
the respective reels (64) and applied correctly to both 

sides of the matched ends of the photographic film (30) 
and of the leader (43); the vertical baffle (63) also 

supporting a cutter device (65) activated by a relative 
solenoid actuator (66) to trim the adhesive tapes (84) 

joining the film (30) and the leader (43). 
14) A device as in preceding claims, wherein the guide 
means (58, 62) interacting with the means (34) by which 

the roll (23) of film is translated in the transverse 
 

direction consist in a longitudinal element, projecting 
orthogonally and internally from the vertical wall of 

the casing (11) adjacent to the longitudinal shelf (19) 
of the drawer table (12), which comprises an initial 

portion extending gradually inward to afford an angled 
surface (58) and merging with a successive rectilinear 

surface (62) disposed parallel to the corresponding 
vertical lateral wall of the casing (11), such that 

when the drawer table (12) slides into the casing (11), 
the vertically disposed wheel (39) of the carriage (34) 

enters into contact with the angled surface (58) and 
the carriage (34) itself is shifted forcibly along the 

transverse track (38) against the action of the return 
spring (40) to the point at which the trimmed leading 

end of the film (30) is matched to the tail end (55) of 
the leader (43) emerging from the sheath (42). 
15) A device as in preceding claims, wherein the feed 
means by which the leader (43) and the film (30) are 

directed into the developing machine (61) comprise two 
horizontal pinch rollers (85, 86) positioned one above 

the other alongside the port (87) communicating with 
the developing machine (61), of which the top roller 

(86) is freely revolving and rotatable about a movable 
axis, and the bottom roller (85) set in rotation about 

a fixed axis by gears (89) associated with a geared 
 

motor (88), the axis of rotation of the top roller (86) 
being translatable vertically between a feed position 

in which the top roller (86) impinges on the bottom 
roller (85), and a standby position in which the top 

roller (86) is elevated from the bottom roller (85) 
through the agency of a solenoid actuator (90) in such 

a way as will allow the take-up lugs (54) of the leader 
(43) to pass between the mutually opposed peripheral 

surfaces of the two rollers (85, 86) when the drawer 
table (12) slides into the casing (11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
