<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633367</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shuttering with forming boards and connecting means
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04G904	E04G1704	E04G1100	E04G1704	E04G902	E04G1120	E04G902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04G	E04G	E04G	E04G	E04G	E04G	E04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04G9	E04G17	E04G11	E04G17	E04G9	E04G11	E04G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shuttering with shuttering boards (1) and connecting means for the same, namely connecting clamps (7) and connecting bolts (11) exhibits shuttering boards (1) with border profiles (2) which have a closed hollow cross-section and each has a stop (5), running on the outermost border of the shuttering board (1), projecting at right angles to the shuttering skin (4) and intended for sealed abutment against a corresponding stop (5) of a neighbouring shuttering board, as well as, on a retaining web (6) which is approximately parallel to said stop (5), engagements locations in the form of shaped recesses (8) for connecting clamps (7) which engage around the border profiles (2) of neighbouring shuttering boards (1). Furthermore, holes (10) for the introduction of connecting bolts (11) are provided at mutual spacings in the stop webs (5) of the hollow border profile (2), in the direction of the longitudinal extent thereof, which connection bolts have, in an end region, protrusions (12) which project radially with respect to the cross-section of the bolts and which engage behind the borders of the holes in the anchoring or locking position, while, in a position rotated with respect to this, it is possible to introduce and draw out the bolt (11) with its protrusions (12) since the holes (10) are slots or keyhole-like holes. The spacing and the size of the holes (10) corresponds to the analogous dimensions of such holes (10) on border webs (13), formed from flat material, of further shuttering boards (1), and the clear spacing between the protrusions (12) and a counter-stop (14), which is spaced apart axially therefrom and belongs to the connecting bolt (11), is approximately equal to the overall thickness of the flat border webs (13) or of one flat border web (13) and a stop web (5) of the border profile (2), with the result that shuttering boards with flat border webs (13) can be connected to shuttering boards with hollow border profiles (2) with the aid of such connecting bolts (11). Furthermore, shuttering boards with flat border webs (13) can be connected to one another with the aid of the connecting bolts (11) and, likewise, shuttering boards with hollow border profiles (2) can be connected to one another by means of connecting clamps (7). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAIER G PASCHAL WERK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PASCHAL-WERK G. MAIER GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARUZEL KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARUZEL, KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Shuttering with forming boards (1) and means of 
connecting the same, wherein marginal sections (2) 

presenting a closed, hollow cross section are 
provided at in particular parallel edges of forming 

boards (1) and in each case have located at right 
angles to the lining skin (4) an abutment web (5) 

that extends at the outermost edge of the forming 
board (1) and serves to be laid tightly against a 

corresponding abutment web (5) of a neighbouring 
forming board, said marginal sections further having 

on a holding web (6) approximately parallel thereto 
points of application for connecting clamps (7) 

embracing the marginal sections (2) of adjacent 
forming boards (1), wherein perforations (10) for 

inserting connecting bolts (11) are provided side by 
side, in spaced relationship, in - and in the 

longitudinal direction of - the abutment webs (5) of 
the hollow marginal sections (2), said connecting 

bolts having at the end thereof at least one 
projection (12) jutting out radially from the cross 

section of the bolt in the connected position, the 
projection being insertable with the connecting bolt 

(11) through the perforation (10), 
characterized in 
that
 the perforations (10) in the abutment webs (5) 
take the form of keyhole-like or oblong performations 

(10), that the connecting bolts (11) engage behind 
the edge of the perforation (10) in the locking 

position or twisted position, that the spacing and 
size of the perforations (10) in the abutment web (5) 

accords with the corresponding dimensions of such 
perforations (10) in flat marginal strips (13) which 

are composed of flat material and form part of 
further forming boards (1), and that the clearance  

 
between the projection (12) jutting out radially and 

an axially spaced counter-stop (14) of the connecting 
bolt (11) corresponds to the overall thickness of the 

marginal web (13) composed of flat material and the 
thickness of the abutment web (5) of the marginal 

section (2). 
Shuttering as claimed in claim 1, characterized in 
that the holding web (6) that belongs to the hollow 

marginal section (2), is situated opposite the 
abutment web (5) and likewise runs approximately at 

right angles to the lining skin (4) is unperforated. 
Shuttering as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterized in that the hollow cross section of the 

marginal section (2) is approximately rectangular or 
square and that the holding web (6) averted from the 

abutment web (5) is formed with at least one 
corrugation, channel, groove or depression (8) for 

the application of corresponding projections (9) of a 
fastening clamp (7). 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that the hollow marginal section (2) 

is closed at the back of the lining skin (4) by a 
fastening web (17) that bears against said lining 

skin (4) and runs at approximately right angles to 
the abutment web (5), and that the lining skin (4), 

particularly one of wood, bears against said 
fastening web (17). 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that the abutment web (5) provided 

with perforations (10) is thicker than the other webs 
of the hollow marginal section (2) and that the other  

 
webs of the marginal section (2) are composed by an 

approximately U-shaped section (18) having its edges 
(19, 20) bearing against the abutment section (5) and 

being welded to the latter at at least one edge (19). 
Shuttering as claimed in claim 4 and any one of 
claims 1 to 3 or 5, characterized in that the 

perforations (10) in the abutment web (5) are 
arranged within the marginal section (2) so close to 

the lining skin (4) that in the anchoring position 
the projection(s) (12) jutting out radially from the 

connecting bolt (11) extend interiorly up to the 
fastening web (17) bearing against the lining skin 

(4) or engage with a recess (21) provided in the 
fastening web (17) near the performations (10) in the 

abutment web (5). 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that the abutment web (5) has, at 

the edge thereof averted from the hollow section and 
facing the concrete, a flange (22) that engages 

behind the side of the lining skin (4) facing the 
concrete and is sunk into the lining skin (4), said 

flange together with the fastening web (17) forming a 
groove (23) embracing the edge of the lining skin 

(4). 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the fastening web (17) that 

forms part of the marginal section (2) and bears 
against the side of the lining skin (4) averted from 

the concrete has threaded or tapped holes (24) 
arranged in spaced relationship to one another and 

the fastening flange (22) lapping over the side of 
the lining skin (4) facing the concrete has at  

 
registering height holes (25) for inserting fastening 

screws/bolts (26) traversing the lining skin (4). 
Shuttering as claimed in claim 8, characterized in 
that the fastening web (17) that forms part of the 

marginal section (2) and presents the tapped holes 
(24), and/or the lining skin (4), extends to the 

outside of the abutment web (5) and is movable 
relative to said abutment web (5) on account of 

elastic bending. 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 8 or 9, 
characterized in that the tapped holes (24) are 

staggered in the longitudinal direction of the 
marginal section (2) relative to recesses (21) for 

retaining projections (12) of fastening bolts (11). 
Shuttering as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, 
characterized in that the U-shaped part (18) of the 

marginal section (2) is provided with breaks (28) and 
anchoring points (29) for draw spindles or the like 

for rendering the forming board (1) adjustable in its 
curvature and that the perforations (10) in the 

abutment webs (5) are staggered in the longitudinal 
direction of the marginal section (2) relative to 

said anchoring points (29). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
