<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Profile for fixing a tensioned sheet and for hanging objects
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47G116	E04B930	E04B930	H01R2500	A47G116	H01R2514	E04B900	E04B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47G	E04B	E04B	H01R	A47G	H01R	E04B	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47G1	E04B9	E04B9	H01R25	A47G1	H01R25	E04B9	E04B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The strip (1) has a section (10) detachably securing taut screen material, and with a portion (12) over which the screen edge-strip hooks. The suspension section (20) joins onto the first one (10), and engages with a profiled sliding rail (21), on which are suspension devices for the items. One or more fixing devices (15,16) secure the strip to a wall or ceiling. The suspension section can contain electrically-conductive components (21,23) connected to the mains, while one or more suspension devices form electrical conductors with a contact head bearing against a component.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KLUTH MARLENE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KLUTH, MARLENE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTH MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTH, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Profile strip (1), consisting of at least one clamping
cover strip (10) for the detachable attachment of

clamping webs, and a gallery strip (20) for suspending
objects, wherein the clamping cover strip (10)

exhibits a device (12, 13) which, viewed in cross
section, extends into the entrance to a space (14) of

the clamping cover strip (10) enclosed on at least 3
sides, and to which a hook-shaped edge strip of the

clamping web can be detachably secured against a
tensile force applied to the clamping web, and wherein

the gallery strip (20) exhibits a profile bar (21)
that can be adjustably connected with suspension

elements, wherein the clamping cover strip (10) and
gallery strip (20) are arranged side by side and

connected to each other, characterized by the fact
that the gallery strip (20) exhibits current-carrying

elements (21, 23) connected with at least one power
supply source.
Profile strip according to claim 1, characterized by
the fact that at least one suspension element is

designed as an electrical conductor, exhibits a
contact head that can be connected with the current

conductor (23), and supplies power to a luminaire
Profile strip (1) according to claim 2, characterized
by the fact that the current-carrying elements (21,

23) are formed by the profile strip (21) and a current
conductor (23), and that the current conductor

accommodated in the profile strip (21) is insulated
from the profile bar (21) by a roughly semi-cylindrical

insulator (24).
Profile strip (1) according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
characterized by the fact that the device (15, 16, 25, 

25', 26, 26') for attachment to a wall or cover
consists of at least two ducts (15) clad with a

flange-shaped insulator (16) passing through a flat
extension piece (25) of the profile bar, preferably

for a screw.
Profile strip (1) according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
characterized by the fact that the device (15, 16, 25,

25', 26, 26') for attachment to a wall or cover
consists of two flat extension pieces (25, 25') on the

profile strip extending in opposite directions,
through which pass at least two ducts (15) each clad

with a flange-shaped insulator (16), preferably for a
screw.
Profile strip (1) according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
characterized by the fact that the device (15, 16, 25,

25', 26, 26') for attachment to a wall or cover
consists of two L-shaped guiding bars (26, 26')

pointing toward each other for guiding and positioning
the profile strip on a bar that can be attached to the

wall or cover, and is complementary to the guiding
bars (26, 26').
Profile strip (1) according to one of the preceding
claims, characterized by the fact that the device (12;

13) is a flange edge (12) that can be back-gripped by
the edge strip, wherein the flange edge extends

against the clamping direction of the clamping web.
Profile strip (1) according to claims 1 to 6,
characterized by the fact that the device (12; 13) is

a shoulder (13) on which the edge strip can be
supported, wherein the shoulder borders a gap through

which the clamping web can be inserted with its edge
strip into a hollow space arranged at an angle to the 

clamping device, and extends at about a right angle to
the clamping web inserted into the hollow space.
Profile strip (1) according to one of the preceding
claims, characterized by the fact that it exhibits two

clamping cover strips (10) and a gallery strip (20).
Profile strip (1) according to claim 9, characterized
by the fact that the two clamping strips (10) are

arranged opposite to each other, which makes it
possible to brace clamping covers or clamping walls in

opposite directions.
Profile strip (1) according to claim 10, characterized
by the fact that the two clamping strips (10) are

arranged at an angle to each other, which makes it
possible to brace clamping covers or clamping walls at

an angle to each other.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
