<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624741</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gear shift device for an automatic automotive gearbox
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H5908	F16H5908	F16H5902	F16H5902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H59	F16H59	F16H59	F16H59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a device forming a gear-change control. The device is characterised in that the gear lever (8) is pushed transversely by an elastic means (9) bringing it automatically, when the lever (8) is placed in the longitudinal "drive" (D) position into an offset position from which longitudinal impulses on the lever change the automatic nature of the operation of the gearbox. The invention finds an application for the automatic gearboxes of motor vehicles. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CITROEN SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PEUGEOT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMOBILES CITROEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMOBILES PEUGEOT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPIN OLIVIER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARNIER CHRISTOPHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPIN, OLIVIER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARNIER, CHRISTOPHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Device forming a gear shift control for an automatic 
speed change gearbox for an automotive vehicle, according 

to which a shift lever (8) is longitudinally and 
transversely movable while being guided by a stepped gear 

shifting gate determining several longitudinal positions 
of the lever such as P (parking), R (reversing), N 

(neutral), D (forward speed) as well as a transversely 
offset position (A) at the level of the longitudinal 

position (D) from which longitudinal impulses upon the 
shift lever (8) are actuating means modifying the 

operating automatism of the speed change gear box in one 
direction (+) or in the other direction (-) to obtain 

longer or shorter ratios, respectively, characterized in 
that the shift lever (8) is transversely pushed by an 

elastic means (9) bringing it automatically into the 
offset position (A) when the lever (8) is placed in the 

longitudinal forward speed position (D) and in that in 
its offset position (A), the shift lever (8) is placed 

between two opposite springs for longitudinal drawback 
(14;15) with the interposition of two blades (13) with 

respective mutually confronting free ends which are 
flaring (13a) to facilitate the approach of the lever (8) 

towards this position for the transverse displacement due 
to the elastic means (9). 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
aforesaid modification means comprise sensors (16) for 

example with microswitches or pressure sensors detecting 
the longitudinal impulses applied to the shift lever (8). 
Device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that both drawback springs are constituted by the blades 

(13) themselves bending from their stationary end. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
