<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Filter insert
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2911	B01D4602	B01D2911	B01D4606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D29	B01D46	B01D29	B01D46	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A filter insert (14) which combines high mechanical strength with good filter cake discharge properties has lateral zigzag-folded or planar filter walls (24, 26) which are connected to horizontal wall parts (28-38) so as to be able to bear load and liquid-tightly. The unit thus obtained is in turn connected to a head section (16) liquid-tightly and so as to be able to bear load, via which head section the filter insert (14) can be attached to a perforated plate of a filter housing. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JUNKER FILTER GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JUNKER-FILTER GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNKER JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNKER, JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Filter insert with a top section (16) capable of being 
attached to a perforated plate (10) of a filter casing 

and a pocket-shaped filter section (22) fixed tightly 
against said top section, said filter section (22) 

comprising: two lateral filter walls (24, 26), an 
upper inherently rigid wall component (28), a lower 

inherently rigid wall component (30) and a rear 
inherently rigid wall component (32), whereby the 

upper wall component (28) and the lower wall component 
(30) are connected to the lower wall component (32) 

remote from the top section (16) and to the top 
section (16) in tight and mechanically loadable manner 

so that a frame is formed, whereby the two filter 
walls (24, 26) are tightly connected to all three wall 

components (28, 30, 32) and to the top section (16) 
and whereby the top section (16) is provided with at 

least one aperture via which purified gas can flow 
away, characterised in that the filter walls (24, 26) 

are folded in zigzag manner and in that at least one 
central internal component (34, 38) is arranged 

between the upper wall component (28) and the lower 
wall component (30) parallel to these wall components, 

said central internal component extending transverse 
to the folds and supporting the filter walls (24, 26). 
Filter insert according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the inherently rigid wall components (28-32) are 

synthetic injection-moulded components or components 

cast from synthetic material. 
Filter insert according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised 
in that the wall components (28-32) and internal 

components (34-38) are injection-moulded or cast onto 
the filter walls (24, 26).  

 
Filter insert according to one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the wall components (28-32) have 

tooth-shaped edge faces according to the zigzag fold 
of the filter walls and the filter walls (24, 26) are 

bonded, welded or cast onto the edge faces (46, 48) of 
the wall components (28-38). 
Filter insert with a top section (16) capable of being 
attached to a perforated plate (10) of a filter casing 

and a pocket-shaped filter section (22) fixed tightly 
against said top section, said filter section (22) 

comprising: two lateral filter walls (24, 26), an 
upper inherently rigid wall component (28), a lower 

inherently rigid wall component (30) and a rear 
inherently rigid wall component (32), whereby the 

upper wall component (28) and the lower wall component 
(30) are connected to the lower wall component (32) 

remote from the top section (16) and to the top 
section (16) in tight and mechanically loadable manner 

so that a frame is formed, whereby the two filter 
walls (24, 26) are tightly connected to all three wall 

components (28, 30, 32) and to the top section (16) 
and whereby the top section (16) is provided with at 

least one aperture via which purified gas can flow 
away, characterised in that the filter walls (24, 26) 

are folded in zigzag manner and in that, with a view 
to supporting the filter walls, at least one strip is 

provided between the upper wall component (28) and the 
lower wall component (30) parallel to these wall 

components, said strip being injection-moulded or cast 
onto the outside of the filter walls transverse to the 

folds and having a geometry corresponding to that of 
the edges (56, 58, 60, 62) of the upper or lower wall 

component. 
Filter insert according to one of Claims 1-5, 
characterised in that the aperture in the top section  

 
(16) leading to the interior of the filter section 

(18) grows wider with increasing distance from the 
filter section (22) and preferably has substantially 

plane divergent lateral wall surfaces. 
Filter insert according to one of Claims 1-6, 
characterised in that the wall component (32) remote 

from the top section (16) bears an engaging element 
(50) which together with a counter-engaging element 

(52) borne by the filter casing supports the end of 
the filter insert (14) remote from the perforated 

plate (10). 
Filter insert according to one of Claims 1-7, 
characterised in that the top section (16) is provided 

on one of its end faces with circumferential sealing 
means (18, 20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
