<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613282</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Circuit arrangement for setting up conference connections in a digital time multiplex telephone exchange
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q1104	H04Q1104	H04M356	H04M356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q11	H04Q11	H04M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To set up three-way connections, a conference unit (KE) is provided with a PROM in which all possible companded summation and differential values in each case of two individual conferee contributions are stored and activated by the individual contributions as read activation addresses. The PROM thus implements the functions of linearisation of the summation and differential formation and companding which are performed in conventional conference units by separate sub-units. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOESS BERNHARD DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOESS, BERNHARD, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Circuit arrangement for setting up conference calls
in a digital time-division multiplex telecommunications

exchange which is located in a feedback loop which
connects the output of the speech memory (which can be

written to cyclically and can be read from randomly) of
the switching arrangement, preferably a group switching

arrangement (GS) in the exchange, to its input,
furthermore having multiplex lines (SMLe, SMLa) which

are connected on the input side and output side to the
speech memory (SM) and on which lines, whose number is

greater than the number of time slots, additionally
immediately successive time slots (conference time

slots) are formed which occur in the information
transmissions from and to the exchange (transmission

time slots), as well as having conference memory cells
which are allocated to the said conference time slots

and are provided in the speech memory and its
associated holder latch in addition to the speech

memory and hold memory required in the course of
switching two-party calls, in which case, in the course

of a conference call, the conference unit receives
individual signals from the conference participants

converted by random reading from the speech memory into
conference time slots and, after linearization thereof,

forms conference-participant-specific result signals
from them, which do not contain the intrinsic element

and, after companding in appropriate conference time 
slots, outputs these signals to the multiplex line on

the input side, from where, during the cyclic writing,
they pass into the associated additional memory cells,

and these result signals are passed on on the multiplex
line on the output side, after random reading into

transmission time slots allocated to the conference
participants, characterized in that, in order to set up

conference calls with three conference participants
involved, the conference unit (KE) contains a read-only

memory (PROM) which (in order that both the functions
of linearization and the companding as well as the

addition of the individual signals, supplied in
successive conference time slots, of in each case two

conference participants can be carried out with its
aid) has a first memory area (in whose memory locations

all the possible companded sum values of two individual
signals are stored) and a second memory area, in whose

memory locations all the possible companded difference
values of two individual signals are stored, in that a

comparator (XORe) is provided, to which the first sign
bit (Vz1) of the first individual signal (S1) is

supplied after buffer storage in two successive
registers (REG1, REG2), and to which the second sign

bit (Vz2) of the second individual signal (S2) is
supplied after buffer storage in a register (REG1), and

whose output signal is used to decide which one of the
two memory areas will be used for the drive addresses

(which are formed by the remaining bits of two
individual signals, (S1, S2W)) which are to act as read

addresses, and in that a decision circuit (XORa) is
provided to which an area signal (D7) is supplied,

which is output together with the result signal output
from the read-only memory and indicates whether the

result signal (D0, ..., D6) originates from the first
memory area or a part of the second memory area, and in

which result signals are stored on the basis of the
difference between a larger and a smaller individual

signal, or whether the result signal originates from a 
part of the second memory area in which result signals

are stored on the basis of the difference between a
smaller and a larger individual signal, and the sign

bit (Vz2) of the second individual signal is supplied,
and which decision circuit emits this sign bit in

original form (in the case of a first-mentioned area
signal value) as the sign bit (Vz) of the result signal

(S) to be passed on, and emits said sign bit in
inverted form as the sign bit (Vz) in the case of a

second-mentioned area signal value, the sign bit (Vz)
and the result signal (S) being passed on to the speech

memory (SM) after buffer storage in a register (REG3)
on the output side.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
