<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSERTABLE TYPE SAFETY COUPLING FOR PRESSURE PIPES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L2702	F16L2702	F16L3747	F16L3728	F16L3744	F16L3738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L27	F16L27	F16L37	F16L37	F16L37	F16L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An insertable type safety coupling for pressure pipes has a coupling socket (1) inside which is swivellingly mounted a locking member (3) and into which a nipple (2) may be inserted for coupling and uncoupling without pressure. The locking member (3) may be secured against swivelling at least in its through-position in the pipe by means of at least one bolt or cam (67). The bolt or cam (67) is slidingly guided on the coupling socket (1) and in its blocked position it engages a bore or recess in the locking member (3). The locking member (3) has a recess that extends around its throughbore in a perpendicular direction to its pivoting axis. An adapter (4) with a through bore is form-fittingly and sealingly set into the recess of the locking member (3). The inside of the adapter (4) is designed as a socket for the nipple (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OETIKER HANS MASCHINEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANS OETIKER AG MASCHINEN- UND APPARATEFABRIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WUETHRICH ALBRECHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WUETHRICH, ALBRECHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Plug-in safety coupling for pressure lines with a 
coupling socket with a blocking member (3), which is 

pivotably mounted therein, which has a diametrical 
through bore, and a plug (2) insertable therein for 

pressureless coupling and uncoupling, which blocking 
member (3) is lockable against pivoting at least in the 

flow position by means of at least one displaceable bolt 
or cam (67), which bolt or cam (67) engages into a bore 

(68, 69, 70) or a recess in the blocking member (3), 
furthermore that the blocking member (3) has a recess 

arranged at right angles to its pivotational axis and is 
arranged about its through bore, into which an adapter 

(4) with through bore is inserted form-lockingly and 
sealingly, whereby its interior is shaped as coupling 

sleeve for the plug (2), which is to be inserted. 
Plug-in safety coupling according to claim 1, 
characterised thereby that the cams (67) are seated on a 

ring (60), which in turn is arranged at the coupling 
housing (1) spring loaded axially displaceably against 

the coupling housing (1), in that the edge facing towards 
the coupling housing (1) has two cams (67) projecting 

beyond this edge, and that these cams (67) are intended 
for engaging through suitable recesses in the coupling 

housing (1) into radial bores (68, 69, 70), which are 
arranged distributed in a zone of the circumference of 

the blocking member (3), whereby the cams (67) arrest the 
blocking member (3) in the respective position depending 

on the pivotational position of the blocking member (3). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised thereby that the recess in the 

blocking member (3) is a blind bore, to the floor of 
which a bore with a fine thread (14) joins on and a 

sealing ring (16) is inserted along the edge of the blind  
 

bore, as well as that the lower outer edge of the adapter 
(4) is contacted, and thus a sealing surface is formed 

with this sealing ring (60), but in the through bore in 
the adapter (4) a threaded nipple (5), with a socket head 

nut passing through it, is seated, by means of which the 
adapter (4) is screw connected to the blocking member 

(3). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that the recess 

in the blocking member (3) is a step shaped blind bore 
about the through bore, into which an adapter (26) with 

suitable step shaped outer edge is inserted, whereby a 
circular groove (27) with smaller diameter is cut in the 

part of the outside of the adapter (26); in which groove 
a sealing ring (28) is seated for sealing off and 

clamping of the adapter (26) in the blocking member (3). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that the adapter 

(22) projects out of the blocking member (3), whereby the 
projecting part of the adapter (22) consists of two webs 

(23, 24), which consist of jacket segments of the adapter 
(22) located oppositely in the pivotational direction of 

the blocking member (3) and on top carry a torus shaped 
ring (25) opposite the outside of the adapter (22), which 

ring is intended to act as guide for the plug (2) to be 
inserted. 
Plug-in safety coupling according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that a spring 

loaded pin (7) extending next to and along the adapter 
(4; 22) is seated in a bore (8) in the blocking member 

(3), the bevelled head of which pin in the decoupled 
condition of the coupling projects slightly into the 

interior of the plug sleeve formed by the adapter and 
projects axially into a recess (10) in the housing (1) of  

 
the coupling socket, such that this pin (7) locks the 

blocking member (3) in this position, whereby the locking 
is releasable by the insertion of the plug, which thereby 

takes the pin (7) along and therewith presses the 
blocking member surface snugly into its bore (8). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that the adapter 

is shaped as plug sleeve, which has two axial bores with 
different diameters joining on each other, whereby an 

annular groove (32) is recessed from the larger bore 
about the bore of smaller diameter, into which groove a 

plug (33) is insertable sealingly by means of a sealing 
element (37). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that a sleeve 

forms the adapter, in that it has an annular groove (37; 
29), into which a sealing ring (20; 30; 37) is inserted, 

and the associated plug (2; 33) has a corresponding 
sealing surface. 
Plug-in safety coupling according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised thereby that a sleeve 

forms the adapter, which has a sealing surface and the 
associated plug has an annular groov
e on its outside, 
into which a sealing ring is inserted. 
Plug-in safety coupling according to claim 5, 
characterised thereby that the web (23) located at the 

adapter in the pivotational direction of the coupling, 
forms a smaller jacket segment than the opposite web 

(24), whereby this smaller web (23) in the coupled 
condition is pivoted into a suitably dimensioned recess 

(13) at the housing (1) of the coupling socket and thus 
stabilises the part of the adapter (22) projecting out of 

the blocking member (3).  
 
Plug-in safety coupling according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised thereby that the recess in the blocking 

member (40) is a step shaped blind bore around the 
through bore into which a sleeve (39) is inserted, this 

sleeve (39) is spring loaded on the shoulder (48) formed 
by the step shaped blind bore in the blocking member 

(40), and that in the part of the blocking member (14) 
with smaller diameter a circular groove (46) is cut, into 

which groove which a sealing ring (42) is inserted for 
sealing off the blocking member (40) relative to the plug 

(33). 
Plug-in safety coupling according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised thereby that the tube end of a tube (44) 

forms the plug of the coupling and a tension clamp (41) 
is the adapter, and, by means of a sealing ring (42), 

this tension clamp (41) abuts sealingly and spring loaded 
on a shoulder (48) in the blocking member (40), whereby 

the coupling housing is shaped internally such that by 
pivotation of the blocking member into the flow position 

the tension clamp (41) is pressed further into the 
blocking member, whereby the sealing ring (42) sealingly 

surrounds the tube (44). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
