<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628512</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Filling head with vent tube adjustable in height
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67C302	B67C326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67C	B67C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67C3	B67C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A filling element for drawing off drinks from a supply boiler (1) in a container which is arranged below the latter in a sealed-off fashion and has a liquid valve (7) which is arranged on the floor of the boiler, controls the outlet (5) and can be moved vertically between a closed position and a predefined opening position, and has a return gas pipe (15) which is coupled to the liquid valve (7) for common vertical movement, penetrates the said valve in a sealed-off fashion and is designed to be vertically adjustable with respect to the liquid valve (7) at least its lower end piece (17) which determines the filling height in the container, is characterised in that an externally controllable rotation implementing device (36) is provided in the axial direction of the return gas pipe (15), above the latter, in the lid (4) of the boiler and is, via a carrier device (30), in longitudinally displaceable rotary engagement with at least one part (16) of the return gas pipe (15), which, when rotated, effects vertical adjustment in screw-type engagement with a thread (27) which is arranged so as to be non-rotating with respect to the liquid valve which is guided in a non-rotating manner. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTMANN 
&
 HERBST MASCH GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTMANN + HERBST MASCHINEN- UND ANLAGENBAU GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUEHMANN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUEHMANN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Filling head for filling beverages from a supply 
tank (1) into a container held sealed beneath it 

including a liquid valve (7), which is arranged on 
the base (2) of the tank and controls the outlet (5) 

and is vertically movable between a closed position 
and a defined open position, and a gas venting pipe 

(15), which is coupled to the liquid valve (7) to 
move vertically with it and passes through it in a 

sealed manner and at least whose lower portion (17), 
which determines the filling level in the container, 

is constructed to be vertically movable with respect 
to the liquid valve (7), characterised in that 

provided in the lid (4) of the tank (1) in the axial 
direction of the gas venting pipe (15) and above the 

latter there is a rotary bush (36), which is 
controllable from the exterior and which is in 

longitudinally movable rotary engagement by means of 
a coupling device (37, 40, 41, 29, 42, 43) with at 

least one portion (16) of the gas venting pipe (15), 
which effects the vertical movement, when it 

rotates, in threaded engagement with a screwthread 
(27), which is rotatably arranged with respect to 

the rotationally fixedly guided liquid valve (7). 
Filling head as claimed in Claim 1 with a gas valve 
(30), which controls the upper end of the gas 

venting pipe (15) by relative vertical movement, 
characterised in that the coupling device has a 

driver (37) of the rotary bush (36) which is in 
longitudinally movable rotary engagement (40, 41) 

with the gas valve (30), the latter being in 
longitudinally movable rotary engagement (42, 43)  

 
with the gas venting pipe (15). 
Filling head as claimed in one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the coupling device 

(42) engages an upper portion (16) of the gas 
venting pipe (15) which is mounted rotatably, but 

vertically immovably, on the liquid valve (7) and is 
in threaded engagement (27) with a lower end portion 

(17) of the gas venting pipe, which is mounted 
rotatably, but vertically movably, on the liquid 

valve (7). 
Filling head as claimed in one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that an actuator (38, 44, 

46) externally engages the rotary bush (36). 
Filling head as claimed in Claim 4, characterised in 
that the actuator is constructed as a star wheel 

(38) with which actuating pins (44, 46), movable 
relative to the filling head, may be brought into 

engagement. 
Filling head as claimed in Claim 4, characterised in 
that the actuator is constructed as a remote 

controlled actuating motor. 
Filling head as claimed in one of Claims 4-6, 
characterised in that the actuator (38, 44, 46) is 

connected to the rotary bush (36) via an overload 
coupling. 
Filling head as claimed in one of Claims 4-7, 
characterised in that the actuator is connected with 

the actuators of the other filling heads arranged on 
a filling machine to a common central controller. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
