<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641631</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and machine for three-sided cutting of stacked books, brochures or the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D101	B26D701	B26D701	B26D706	B26D708	B26D106	B26D702	B26D706	B26D708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D1	B26D7	B26D7	B26D7	B26D7	B26D1	B26D7	B26D7	B26D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a process for the three-sided trimming of stacks of book blocks, brochures or the like, side cutters trimming the head and tail side, and a transverse cutter trimming the front side, of the stack, and said stack being pressed against a bearing table during trimming. With regard to increasing the cutting quality and performance in the case of said process, it is provided that a fed stack (1) is subjected to pre-pressing, in that the air enclosed in the stack (1) is pressed out with the progressive exertion of force, beginning on one side of the stack (1). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOLBUS GMBH 
&
 CO KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOLBUS GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHERT HORST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHERT, HORST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Trimming machine for trimming stacks (1) of inner 
books, brochures or the like on three sides, having a 

trimming station with lateral knives (2) and with a 
transverse knife (3), having a pressing device (4) for 

exerting a pressure upon the stack (1) of material to 
be trimmed situated on the supporting table (5) and 

having a feed device for conveying the stack (1) of 
material to be trimmed in a timed manner into the 

trimming station, characterized by a preliminary 
pressing device (10) which is disposed in the feed 

device, preferably immediately upstream of the trimming 
station, for expelling air trapped in the stack (1) of 

material to be trimmed by progressively exerting 
pressure starting from one end of the stack (1) of 

material to be trimmed and which comprises continuous 
conveying means (11, 12),
 which act from above and from 
below, are drivable so as to rotate at the same speed 

and to which the stack (1) of material to be trimmed 
may be supplied by means of a conveying device (35). 
Trimming machine according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the conveying means comprise plate chains (11, 12) 

having pressing plates (13), which are oriented at 
right angles to the direction of passage, are supported 

in the pressing zone on rails (26, 27) and are disposed 
on chains (19, 20), which lie at a distance from one 

another and are guided around chain wheels (15-18). 
Trimming machine according to claim 2, characterized in 
that the pressing plates (13) are coupled to the chains 

(19-20) in such an offset manner that their surfaces 
lie slightly outside of the pitch circle of the chain 

wheels (15-18).  
 
Trimming machine for trimming stacks (1) of inner 
books, brochures or the like on three sides, having a 

trimming station with lateral knives (2) and with a 
transverse knife (3), having a pressing device (4) for 

exerting a pressure upon the stack (1) of material to 
be trimmed situated on the supporting table (5) and 

having a feed device for conveying the stack (1) of 
material to be trimmed in a timed manner into the 

trimming station, characterized by a preliminary 
pressing device (10) which is disposed in the feed 

device, preferably immediately upstream of the trimming 
station, for expelling air trapped in the stack (1) of 

material to be trimmed by progressively exerting 
pressure starting from one end of the stack (1) of 

material to be trimmed and which comprises a conveying 
system having a lower pressing plate (55) and an upper 

pressing plate (56) disposed in a rotatably driven 
upper and lower continuous conveying means (53, 54), of 

which the upper pressing plate may be swivelled by 
operating means (59, 60) between an opening position 

inclined relative to the lower pressing plate (55) and 
a closing position parallel to the lower pressing plate 

(55) while simultaneously applying a pressure upon the 
working runs of the conveying means (53, 54) and to 

which (55, 56) the stack (1) of material to be trimmed 
may be supplied in a timed manner in such a way that a 

stack (1) of material to be trimmed situated between 
the upper run of the lower conveying means (54) and the 

lower run of the upper conveying means (53) may be 
pressed together with the runs between the pressing 

plates (55, 56). 
Trimming machine according to claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that the working run of the lower 

conveying means (12, 54) is positioned in a higher 
plane than the infeed plane of the conveying device 

(35).  
 
Trimming machine according to claims 1 to 5, 
characterized in that the distance between the pressing 

plates (11, 12) and/or between the conveying means (53, 
54) having the pressing plates (55, 56) is variable by 

adjusting means (33, 34) in order to adjust the 
compressive force. 
Trimming machine according to claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that the conveying means (11, 12; 53, 

54) have a free space (41) for receiving the spine 
regions of the stack (1) of material to be trimmed. 
Trimming machine according to claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the working run of the upper 

conveying means (11, 53) has an inlet (28) narrowing in 
a wedge-shaped manner as well as an outlet (29) 

widening in a wedge-shaped manner. 
Trimming machine according to claim 4, characterized in 
that, instead of the pressing plates (11, 12), belts, 

rollers or similar conveying means are used. 
Trimming machine according to claim 9, characterized in 
that an arrangement of belts (64), which are positioned 

at a defined distance from one another, is used as 
conveying means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
