<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626480</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A support and coupling structure for a portable drill for railway tracks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01B3100	E01B3106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01B	E01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01B31	E01B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a support and coupling 
structure for a portable drill for railway tracks. 

It comprises two guide rails (1) provided with 
racks (10), a vice (3, 3'), a support (5) and 

manoeuvring means (6). The vice (3, 3') has a 
first and a second jaw (7, 8) inferiorly shaped 

such as to grip the upper flange of the rail (4) 
and superiorly equipped with a strike and a 

counterstrike plates (74, 84). The jaw (7) is 
laterally fixed between the guide bars (1) and 

rests on the rolling plane (40) of the rail (4). 
The second jaw (8) is connected to the first jaw 

(7) by means of a flathead pivot (9), with a 
counterspring (12) and a key (100). The support 

device (5) comprises an adjustable drill (2) 
support device and sliding seats (51) on the guide 

bars (1). The manoeuvring means (6) comprise first 
gears (60) enmeshing with the racks (10) and keyed 

on a first shaft (61), which shaft (61) is also 
equipped with a handle (62) and second gears (63) 

enmeshing with the first gears (60) and keyed on a 
second shaft (64) equipped with a turning handle 

(66). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GASTONE BIFFOLI S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GASTONE BIFFOLI S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIFFOLI GASTONE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIFFOLI, GASTONE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a support and coupling 
structure for a portable drill for railway tracks. 
The mechanisation process of maintenance work in 
the railway sector has advanced particularly in 
the field of small machines for work on tracks, 
such as drills, borers and saws, but there is 
still much room for improvement. For example, even 
though welding is now widely used for connecting 
lengths of rail, traditional-type bolting using 
fishplates, track bolts and holes bored in the 
webs of the tracks is still in widespread use. 
Motor-driven drills are used for this task, 
usually having electric, pneumatic or internal-combustion 
motors, with gear reducers, and support 
and coupling structures are necessary for coupling 
the assembly to the track. Drawbacks of this kind of structure are that they 
are heavy and massive and therefore difficult to 
transport, as well as slow and laborious to 
install and remove on and from the track. Further,  
 
the coupling of the structure to the track is 
unstable, creating difficulties with regard to 
accuracy of desired bore height and direction. Electric drills are usually preferable since they 
are lighter than internal combustion drills, but 
obviously where there is no available current 
link-up they cannot be used, and it becomes 
necessary to use an internal-combustion motor 
drill, heavier and more massive than the former 
type and requiring correspondingly larger and 
stronger support and coupling structures. The poor 
precision of these drills is caused by 
insufficiently strong and stable blocking devices, 
which devices are rendered even less efficient by 
the amount of time required to block and unblock 
them through the use of small handwheels 
manoeuvring jacks and rods on various parts of the 
rail, not forgetting the need to reposition and 
reblock the entire support structure in order to 
bore holes that are even very close together. A further drawback inherent to the above drills is 
worthy of note: when a hole is to be drilled at 
crossovers in the tracks, the convergence of the 
rails causes such difficulty in boring the 
individual rails that in order to position the  
 
blocking structure the adjacent rail has to be 
lifted out of the way, causing enormous work hold-ups. As mentioned above, the total weight of the drill 
and its support structure constitutes a 
considerable drawback. Since often the drill or 
other machine tool has to be carried by hand, if 
there is also a massive support structure to carry 
at least two operatives
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A support and coupling structure for a portable 
drill for railway tracks comprising two parallel 

cylindrical guide bars (1) for forwards and 
backwards movement of a drill (2) and of a chuck 

and bit (90) of the drill (2), which chuck and bit 
(90) are parallel to the guide bars (1); a vice 

(3, 3') for blocking the parallel guide bars (1) 
to a railway (4); a support (5) of the drill (2) 

and manoeuvring means (6) for moving the support 
(5) on the guide bars (1), 

characterised in that: 

the vice (3, 3') associated to an end of the 
parallel guide bar pair comprises a first (7) and 

a second jaw (8), inferiorly shaped according to a 
shape of a rail end (41) and a rail fishing 

surface (42), and superiorly provided with a 
strike surface (74) and a counterstrike surface 

(84) to signal that a blocking procedure has been 
carried out; the first jaw (7) having a horizontal 

centrally developing body (70) which is rigidly 
fixed laterally between the guide bars (1) and 

 
which leans on a rolling plane of a head of the 

rail (4); the second jaw (4) having a vertically 
developing body connected to the first jaw (7) by 

means of a flathead pivot (9) provided with a 
coaxial spring (12) and a feather key (100), the 

pivot (9) being received in a central through-hole 
in the second jaw (8) and, coaxially, in a tubular 

element (75), and being opposed by the spring (12) 
which projects centrally from the first jaw (7) 

perpendicularly to the rail (4) on an opposite 
side to the guide bars (1); the feather key (100) 

being movably insertable in a slot made in 
proximity of the pivot (9) end projecting from the 

tubular element (75) and having one of its ends 
inclined and striking against a free end of the 

tubular element (75), with a consequent blocking 
of the vice (3, 3') on the top flange of the rail 

(4) by pressure exerted on the pivot (9); 
the drill support device on the guide bars (1) 
comprises an adjustable drill suspension frame 

(50) and associated parallel cylindrical seats 
(51) which slide on the guide bars (1), the frame-seats 

assembly being dismountable from the guide 
bars (1); 
the drill manoeuvring means on the guide bars 
 

(1) comprise two parallel racks (51) superiorly 
solid to the guide bars (1), a first gear pair 

(10) meshing with the racks (10) through vertical 
apertures (56) made in the cylindrical sliding 

seats (51) and keyed on a first transversal rod 
(61) mounted on the support frame (5) and 

rotatable by means of a handle (62) at one of the 
rod ends (62). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the first jaw (7) of the vice (3) is fixed between 

the guide bars (1) in such a way that an axis of 
the pivot (9) connecting jaw (7) and jaw (8) and 

axes of the guide bars (1) are parallel; an axis 
of the bit (90) of the drill (2) being 

perpendicular to the web (45) of the rail (4). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the first jaw (7) of the vice (3') is fixed 

between the guide bars (1) in such a way that 
there is a perpendicular relation between axes of 

the bars (1) and an axis of the pivot (9) 
connecting the first and second jaws (7 and 8); an 

axis of the bit (90) of the drill (2) being 
perpendicular to the lower surface of the lower 

 
flange (46) of the rail (4). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the tubular element (75) of the first jaw (7) 

exhibits, at free end, a diametral recess (75b) to 
receive a key (100) passing into the connecting 

pivot (9). 
A structure as in claims 1 and 4, characterised in 
that the second jaw (8) is connected to the first 

jaw (7) by means of the flathead pivot (9) and a 
spring (12) and the key (100), which key (100) is 

insertable in the slot in the tubular element (75) 
in the diametral recess (75b), placing the vice 

(3, 3') in a non-operative loosely-coupled 
position with the upper flange of the rail (4), 

whereby it can slide along the rail (4). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
endrun means are present and comprise a pin (11) 

inserted in a diametral through-hole nearer to an 
end of the pivot (9) than the insertion slot for 

the key (100). 
A structure as in claims 1 and 5, characterised in 
 

that the second jaw (8) is connected to the first 
jaw (7) by means of the flathead pivot (9) and the 

endrun pin (11) but not by means of the key (100), 
so that the vice (3, 3') is in a non-operative 

position, with the jaws (7 and 8) loosely 
connected; whereas the vice (3, 3') is in closer 

position with respect to the previous position 
when the pin (11) is striking against the free end 

(75a) of the tubular element (75). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 

the manoeuvring means (6) of the drill (2) on the 
guide bars (1) further comprise a second gear pair 

(63, 63), enmeshed with the first gear pair (60) 
and keyed on a second transversal shaft (64), 

rotatable on the support frame (50) and bearing a 
perpendicular turning head (65) turnable by means 

of a turning rod (66) of adequate length. 
A structure as in claims 1 and 8, characterised in 
that the manoeuvring means (6) further comprise: a 

clutch device mounted coaxially to the second 
transversal shaft (64) and interacting between the 

head (65) and the support (5); the clutch device 
including an adjustment collar (67), internally 

 
threaded and screwable on a counterthread made at 

an end portion (64a) of the second shaft (64); a 
pressure collar (68), engaged on and slidable 

along the second shaft (64); and an elastic 
element (69), interpositioned between the 

adjustment collar (67) and the pressure collar 
(68), and compressible by screwing the adjustment 

collar (67) to exert an adequate pressure on 
relative contact surfaces (68a, 5a) between the 

said pressure collar (68) and the support (5). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
it comprises elastic means for a backwards return 

movement of the support frame (50) and drill (2), 
including a crossbar (91) removably connected to 

the guide bars (1) at an end of the guide bars (1) 
which is opposite to the end bearing the vice (3, 

3'), a spring (92) countering the advancement 
movement of the support frame (50) and connected 

to same, and a threaded rod (93), passing through 
the crossbar (91), for manually adjusting the 

spring tension by means of a handle (94). 
A structure as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the adjustable support frame (50) of the drill (2) 

 
comprises lateral C-brackets (52) perpendicular to 

the guide bars (1) for the housing of a gear 
reducer group (2a) of the drill (2) projecting 

with respect to the motor of the drill (2): on 
each C-bracket (52) there is a vertical slot (53) 

for the passage of a plurality of bolts (54), the 
function of the C-brackets (52) being to adjust 

the height of the drill (2) and therefore its 
chuck and bit (90) with respect to the guide bars 

(1). 
A structure as in claim 11, characterised in that 
a rack is provided on the gear reducer (2a) group 

which rack is parallel to one of the C-brackets 
(52) and enmeshes with a command pinion (57) 

supported rotatably on the C-bracket (52) and 
connected to a manoeuvring organ (58). 
A structure as in claim 11, characterised in that 
the adjustable support frame (50) of the drill (2) 

further comprises, at the free ends of the C-brackets 
(52), a solid connecting and frame 

stiffening element (55) and sliding seats, when 
the whole assembly is removed from the guide bars 

(1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
