<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642451</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLASTIC CLOSURE AND METHOD FOR ITS PRODUCTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4500	B29C4544	E05D102	B65D4708	B29C4500	B65D4316	B65D4316	B65D4708	B29C4544	E05D100	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	E05D	B65D	B29C	B65D	B65D	B65D	B29C	E05D	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	B29C45	E05D1	B65D47	B29C45	B65D43	B65D43	B65D47	B29C45	E05D1	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Described is a one-piece plastic closure for fitting to a container, the closure consisting of a lower part (10), forming the first part of the closure, which is directly or indirectly connected to the container, plus a cap (20) which forms the second part of the closure and which is integral with the lower part (10), to which it is joined by means of a thin-sheet hinge (31). In addition, the closure includes at least one spring element (32) which is designed to produce a snap-shut action and which is moulded so that it extends beyond the hinge and can flex both with the lower part (10) and with the cap (20). The closure is characterized in that the hinge extends, without interruption, beyond the at least one spring element (32) which, when the closure is closed, lies entirely inside the closure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Plastic closure comprising a first part (10) to be 
fastened directly or indirectly to a container and a 

second part (20) serving as a cap, which is connected 
integrally with the first part by means of at least one 

main integral hinge (31) which has at least one U-shaped 
spring element (32) engaging both parts, bridging the 

pivot axis of the main integral hinge and producing a 
snap effect, characterised in that the main integral 

hinge (31) is continuous in the area where it is bridged 
by the one or more spring elements (32), and in that in 

the closed state of the closure the spring element (32) 
is located invisibly entirely inside the closed closure. 
Plastic closure according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the distance between two adjacent spring elements 

(32) is at least twice the width of the one or more 
spring elements. 
Plastic closure according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the one or more spring elements (32) consist of two 

U-shaped part-springs (33) running parallel to each other 
with a gap (34) between them. 
Plastic closure according to Claim 3, characterised in 
that the inner faces (38) of the U-shaped part-springs 

(33) run obliquely in relation to the gap (34) between 
the two part-springs (33) at least in the area of the two 

U-bends [?] (35), so that the thicknesses of the two 

part-springs grow narrower towards the gap. 
Plastic closure according to Claim 3, characterised in 
that the hinged connections between the spring elements  

 
(31) and the lower part (10) or of the cap (20) are 

effected by thin sections (36) running at least 
approximately parallel to the main integral hinge (31) 

and located in the outer faces of the U-shaped part-springs 
(32). 
Plastic closure according to Claim 4, characterised in 
that the U-shaped part-springs (33) have a cross section 

which narrows towards the gap (34) over their entire 
length between the two thin sections (36) and the lower 

part (10) or the cap (20). 
Plastic closure according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the lower part (10) has a closing face (12) with a 

pouring aperture (13) located in it, a closed cavity (15) 
being located in the closing face (12) in the area 

between the pouring aperture (13) and the main integral 
hinge (31), in which cavity the one or more spring 

elements (32) are at least partly accommodated in the 
closed state of the closure. 
Plastic closure according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the one or more spring elements (32) are connected 

to the lower part (10) or to the cap (20) by means of 
flexible thin sections (36), the flexible thin sections 

(36) being located on brackets (37) which are located at 
one side on a closing face (12) of the lower part and on 

the other side on the inner face (22) of the cap (20). 
Procedure for producing a plastic closure according to 
Claim 1, characterised in that the closure is injection 

moulded using a multi-part core (I, II, III), the core 
part (II), which supports the one or more U-shaped spring 

elements (32), running completely above the continuous 
integral hinge (31) on the side located inside the closed  

 
closure in the closed state of the closure, and being 

withdrawn with it, without intersection, from the one or 
more U-shaped spring elements (32) in a direction 

perpendicular or parallel to the axis of the main 
integral hinge. 
Procedure according to Claim 9, characterised in that the 
inner face (38) of the one or more U-shaped spring 

elements (32) is formed by at least one core part (II) 
formed as a sliding bar and running parallel to the main 

integral hinge (31). 
Procedure according to Claim 9 for producing the plastic 
closure according to Claim 3, characterised in that, when 

removing the mould, the mould part (I), which exposes the 
demarcation of the lateral limiting faces (39) facing 

away from the gap (34), is removed in a first step, and 
the core part (II) supporting the U-shaped part-springs 

(33) and filling the gap between the part-springs is 
withdrawn in a second step, while temporarily pushing the 

elastically deforming spring elements sideways into the 
vacated space. 
Procedure according to Claim 11 for producing the plastic 
closure according to Claim 5, characterised in that the 

mould core (I, II, III) has at least three parts, and in 
that, after removal of the core part II, which projects 

into the gap between the spring elements, a third core 
part III forming the outer side faces with the thin 

sections is removed, while the spring elements, which 
have already been exposed on their inner sides, are 

briefly pressed together elastically over the minimal 
distance between the two thin sections, as the mould is 

removed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
