<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634600</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connector and fitting for corrugated pipes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L3328	H02G302	F16L3300	F16L3328	F16L3700	F16L3300	F16L2500	F16L2500	F16L37098	H02G306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	H02G	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L33	H02G3	F16L33	F16L33	F16L37	F16L33	F16L25	F16L25	F16L37	H02G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
At least one core cavity (5) for receiving one end of a corrugated pipe (2) is provided in a housing (3) of the joining piece (1). In this core cavity (5) there is arranged, between the corrugated pipe (2) and the housing (3), a sleeve (4) into which the end of the corrugated pipe (2) is plugged. Provided on said sleeve (4) are resilient elements (15, 16) which, by means of an outer ring (23), are pressed on the housing (3) with respect to the axis (29) of the joining piece (1). At least one of the resilient elements (15, 16) is provided with in each case one positioning element (20) and one locking element (24), said elements (20, 24) engaging into a through-passage (21) in the housing (3). The connection between corrugated pipe (2) and housing (3) can be released only by means of an auxiliary tool and is thus protected against unintensional release. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Connection and joining piece (1) for corrugated tubes 
(2), having at least one core cavity (5) surrounded by 

a housing (3) and having an insertion opening (6) for 
receiving one end of the tube (2) and an opposing 

throat (7), a sleeve (4) disposed between the outer 
casing (10) of the end of the tube (2) and the inner 

casing (11) of the core cavity (5) of the housing (3), 
wherein said sleeve (4) is divided at one end (13) by 

notches (17) into casing elements (15, 16), the free 
ends of said casing elements (15, 16) are elastically 

movable and there are provided at the outside of the 
casing elements (15, 16) acting elements (20, 24) as 

well as at the inside of the elastically movable 
casing elements (15, 16) cams (8) for engagement into 

the recesses (9) in the casing (10) of the corrugated 
tube (2), and having an outer ring (23) for fixing the 

elastic casing elements (15, 16) in a locking 
position, wherein the sleeve (4) at the inner end (12) 

directed towards the throat (7) has a radially 
inwardly directed collar (14) which forms a driver for 

the end face of the end of the tube (2), the movable 
casing elements (15, 16) are disposed at the other 

outer end (13) of the sleeve (4) situated in the 
region of the insertion opening (6) and in the 

starting position are designed so as to be outwardly 
divergent and in the form of spring casing elements 

(15, 16), there is disposed on the outer casing (19) 
of the sleeve (4) at least one positioning element 

(20) which, as an acting element, cooperates with a 
counterpart (21) in the housing (3) and positions the 

sleeve (4) in an assembly position in the housing (3), 
in said assembly position the clear diameter of the 

cavity (22) at the outer end (13) of the sleeve (4) 
between opposing cams (8) is at least as great as the 

external diameter of the corrugated tube (2), in  
 

addition to the positioning element (20) there is 
disposed on at least one of the spring casing elements 

(15) of the sleeve (4) on the outer surface (19) a 
second acting element in the form of a locking element 

(24), said locking element (24) is at a distance from 
the positioning element (20), said distance 

corresponds to the length of the displacement movement 
of the sleeve (4) from the assembly position into a 

fitted position and the locking element (24) in the 
fitted position of the sleeve (4) engages into the 

counterpart (21) in the housing (3) and wherein the 
region of the housing (3) situated around the 

insertion opening (6) forms the outer ring (23) for 
fixing the spring casing elements (15, 16) of the 

sleeve (4). 
Connection and joining piece according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the counterpart (21) to the 

positioning element (20) and to the locking element 
(20) on the sleeve (4) is a breach in the housing (3). 
Connection and joining piece according to claim 1 or 

2, characterized in that the positioning element (20) 
and the locking element (24) on the outer casing (19) 

of the sleeve (4) are each formed by a radially 
outwardly directed cam with an inclined run-on surface 

(25, 27) directed towards the inner end (12) of the 
sleeve (4) and an adjoining stop face (26, 28) 

extending substantially perpendicular to the 
longitudinal axis (29) of the sleeve (4). 
Connection and joining piece according to one of 
claims 1 to 3, characterized in that a recess (31) for 

introducing a tool is disposed between the front 
surface (30) of the housing (3) and the counterpart 

(21) to the positioning element (20) or the breach in 
the inner casing of the housing (3).  

 
Connection and joining piece according to one of 
claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the region of the 

housing (3) between the front surface (30) and the 
counterpart (21) to the positioning element (20) or 

breach is elastic. 
Connection and joining piece according to one of 
claims 1 to 5, characterized in that a longitudinal 

groove (32) is disposed in the inner casing (11) of 
the housing (3) and a longitudinal rib (33), which 

engages into said longitudinal groove (32), is 
disposed on the outer casing (19) of the sleeve (4). 
Connection and joining piece according to one of 
claims 1 to 6, characterized in that a sealing cap 

(34) is inserted in the region of the collar (14) 
and/or the inner end (12) of the sleeve (4). 
Connection and joining piece according to one of 
claims 1 to 7, characterized in that a groove (35) for 

receiving the positioning element (20) and directed 
towards the inner end (12) of the sleeve (4) is 

disposed in the inner casing (11) of the housing (5) 
and adjoining the counterpart (21) to the positioning 

element (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
