<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cap for writing instruments containing ink
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B43K2312	B43K2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B43K	B43K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B43K23	B43K23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cap for writing instruments containing ink, has a safety 
ventilation function in that it enables an air flow along the 

cap (201), if the cap has lodged in a person's windpipe when 
swallowed accidentally. The cap (201) is closed on all sides 

with the exception of its insertion end (204). At least one 
axial ventilation path is formed by a plurality of axial 

indentations or grooves (206) formed in the outer surface of 
the cap and spaced apart peripherally, and a substantially 

plate-like retaining clip (202) provided between an adjacent 
pair of axial indentations or grooves (206). Accordingly the 

ventilation path along its axial extension has an open cross-sectional 
configuration, whereby when a covering is placed 

around the cap, a cross-sectional area for ventilation in 
each radial plane is defined having a throughflow capacity 

corresponding to the air requirement of a person. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOMBOW PENCIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOMBOW PENCIL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAMI KAZUNORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAMI, KAZUNORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an improvement to caps for writing 
instruments containing ink and in particular to a cap with a 
safety ventilation device in order to facilitate an air flow 
along the cap, if the latter has lodged in a person's 
windpipe, for example of a child, when swallowed 
accidentally. In writing instruments which contain no ink, such as pencils 
and the like, hitherto in order to prevent asphyxiation as a 
result of accidental swallowing, an opening may be provided 
in the top of the cap covering the point of the pencil, so 
that if the cap has lodged in a child's windpipe, air for 
breathing may continue to flow through the cap, until medical 
assistance is given (see for example JP-A-39592/1986 and 
118038/1977). A transfer of this principle to a cap for 
writing instruments containing ink, in which an evaporation 
of the ink must be prevented and the writing tip must be kept 
continuously moist, is not readily possible. In caps which 
serve to seal the writing tip of a writing instrument 
containing ink with respect to atmospheric air, the risk of 
asphyxiation therefore exists in the case of accidental 
swallowing, such as is to be feared in particular with 
children. Inter alia this risk has been expressed in a 
specification of the "British Standard Institution", which is 
under preparation and dated June 23rd 1989, document No. 
89/38201. It has been proposed (EP-A-0204252, JP-A-11016/1986), to 
provide an airway in the cap, which however is sealed 
hermetically when the cap is fitted to the writing 
instrument. It is typical of this type of safety caps that 
one or more perforations are provided at one or more axial or  
 
peripheral points of the cap wall, which perforations thus 
facilitate an exchange of air between the outside and inside 
of the cap. It is also known (DE-A-3728896), to provide a 
separate tubular air passage with open axial ends and a 
cross-section closed peripherally all round, on the outside 
of the cap, in order to separate the safety function from the 
sealing function. From EP-A-319 311 a safety cap is known 
which has an axially extending ventilation path on the 
outside of the cap provided underneath a clip which is 
connected to the cap in a rigid, non-resilient manner. 
Finally from DE-U-8908065 a cap is known in which a 
ventilation path is defined by a number of longitudinal 
grooves provided between ribs axially extending on the 
outside of the cap, in which the grooves communicate with the 
interior of the cap along a body portion thereof near
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cap for writing instruments containing ink, having a 
safety ventilation means enabling an air flow along the cap, 

if the cap has lodged in a person's windpipe when swallowed 
accidentally, said safety ventilation means comprising an 

axial ventilation path on the outside of the cap, which along 
at least part of its axial extension has an open cross-sectional 

configuration, whereby when a covering is placed 
around the cap, a cross-sectional area for ventilation in 

each radial plane is defined having a throughflow capacity 
corresponding to the air requirement of a person, said 

ventilation path being partially formed by a plurality of 
axial indentations or grooves (206) formed in the outer 

surface of the cap and spaced apart peripherally, 
characterized in that the cap being closed on all sides with 

the exception of its insertion end (204), in which a 
substantially plate-like retaining clip (202) is provided 

between an adjacent pair of said axial indentations or 
grooves (206). 
A cap according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
cross-sectional area of the ventilation path at any axial 

position of the cap (201) is greater than or equal to 3.4 
mm
2
. 
A cap according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the ventilation path terminates at a distance less than or 

equal to 2 mm from the insertion end (204) of the cap (201). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
