<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626061</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEASURING INSTRUMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C918	G01C918	G01C906	G01C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C9	G01C9	G01C9	G01C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical measuring instrument to indicate or determine the relative position of an objet and/or a substrate in relation to a horizontal plane comprises an at least partially tranparent measuring chamber containing two non-miscible media with different densities, one of the media being at least partially transparent or translucent and at least the other being a fluid medium. The relative position is found on the basis of the position of the at least partially transparent or translucent medium in the measuring chamber, when what is concerned is an optical instrument operating on the principle of a spirit level. On one side of the measuring chamber (3) is a light source (13) and on the opposite side there is an optical measuring cell (21) or a flat, light-sensitive sensor. The light (17) transmitted from the light source through the at least partially transparent or translucent medium (8) is projected on the optical measuring cell (21) or the flat, light-sensitive sensor and the projection (23) is used to determine the relative position of the object in relation to the horizontal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAUSMANN MANFRED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAUSMANN, MANFRED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUGUSTIN VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER EDUARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUGUSTIN, VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER, EDUARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Measuring instrument for determining the relative position 
of an object in relation to a horizontal plane, comprising 

an at least partially transparent measuring chamber (1) 
containing two non-miscible media (7, 8) with different 

densities, one of the media (8) being at least partially 
transparent and at least the other being a fluid medium, 

and the relative position being determined on the basis of 
the position of the at least partially transparent medium 

(8) in the measuring chamber, comprising a light source 
(13) and a light-sensitive sensor (21) on to which the 

light (17) transmitted from the light source (13) through 
the at least partially transparent medium (8) is projected, 

the projection (23) being used to determine the relative 
position (A) of the object, characterised in that the light 

source (13), the measuring chamber (1) and the light-sensitive 
sensor (21) are arranged one behind the other 

along a horizontal axis, that the light source (13) is 
arranged on one side of the measuring chamber (1) and the 

light-sensitive sensor (21) is arranged on the other side 
of the measuring chamber (1), that the measuring chamber 

(1) is a circular tube or a circular disc-shaped hollow 
body (3) and that the entire projection of the measuring 

chamber (1) is projected on to the light-sensitive sensor 
(21). 
Measuring instrument according to claim 1, characterised in 
that at least one of the media (7, 8) is light polarising. 
Measuring instrument according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised in that the two media are fluid media (7, 8) 

and the medium (7) is an opaque medium, and the two media 
(7, 8) are enclosed in a transparent hollow body (3), in  

 
particular of glass. 
Measuring instrument according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the quantity of the 

transparent medium (8) is small in relation to the quantity 
of the opaque medium (7). 
Measuring instrument according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the transparent medium (8) is 

arranged in or opposite the zenith of the hollow body (3). 
Measuring instrument according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the hollow body (3) has a 

constant cross section perpendicular to the tube or disc. 
Measuring instrument according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the light-sensitive sensor 

(21) is a position-sensitive detector or a matrix-type 
detector. 
Method of determining the relative position of an object in 
relation to a horizontal plane by means of a measuring 

instrument according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that light from a light source (13) 

arranged on one side of a measuring chamber (1) is 
transmitted through the measuring chamber (1) through the 

at least partially transparent fluid medium (8) and is 
projected on to a light-sensitive flat sensor (21) arranged 

on the opposite side of the measuring chamber (1), the 
relative position (A) of the object being determined from 

the position of the projection (23) on the sensor (21).  
 
Method according to claim 8, characterised in that the 
centroid of the transmitted light spot or projection (23) 

on the light-sensitive sensor (21) is determined and the 
relative position (A) or angular position is determined 

from this value and indicated by means of suitable means. 
Use of the optical measuring instrument according to one of 
claims 1 to 7 for the automatic levelling of an object to 

be held in a specific position, in which the relative 
position (A) of the object determined by the measuring 

instrument is used to reduce or compensate for any likely 
deviation of the object from a specific position to be 

adopted by suitable measures. 
Use of a measuring instrument according to one of claims 1 
to 7 as an altimeter or inclinometer, in which the 

altimeter or inclinometer is provided on one or both arms 
with an optical measuring instrument according to one of 

the claims and the angle of elevation or inclination is 
measured from the relative position (A) of the two arms in 

relation to one another or to the horizontal. 
Use of a measuring instrument according to one of claims 1 
to 7 for detecting the acceleration of an object, in which 

the variation over time of the indication of the relative 
position (A) or angular position is measured or determined. 
Use of a measuring instrument according to one of claims 1 
to 7 in an artificial horizon, e.g. of an aircraft, for 

determining the deviation or the relative position (A) of 
an object, e.g. an aircraft in relation to the horizontal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
