<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633751</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT ON A DENTAL SUCTION IMPLEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C1700	A61C1712	A61C1706	A61C1708	A61C1700	A61C1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C17	A61C17	A61C17	A61C17	A61C17	A61C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a dental suction implement, a pourable additive is added to the mixture of solids and liquids sucked out of the mouth of the patient in the area of the mouthpiece (3) by means of a dosing device (9) constructively linked to a control device and associated to the hose storage unit (14). A supply channel (10) parallel to the suction channel (22) extends between the dosing device (9) and the admixing spot (11) in the mouthpiece (3).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREGENZER BRUNO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRAWOEGER WERNER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREGENZER, BRUNO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRAWOEGER, WERNER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREGENZER BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAWOEGER WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREGENZER, BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAWOEGER, WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
An arrangement on a dental suction implement, in 
which a mixture of liquids and solids is sucked 

from the mouth of the patient by means of suction 
air, moved through a suction channel (22) that 

passes through a mouthpiece (3), a moveable 
suction hose (2), and a suction hose storage unit 

(14) into a separator (6), where it is separated 
from the suction air, said arrangement comprising 

a supply (8) of a pourable additive agent, a 
metering device (9) and a control system for the 

addition of the additive agent, an admixture point 
(11) for the additive agent to the mixture being 

associated with the mouthpiece (3), characterized 
in that at least two suction hoses (2) are 

provided, in that the metering device (9) is 
arranged on the hose storage unit (14), and in 

that a supply channel (10) for each suction hose 
(2) runs from the metering device (9) and is 

provided between the metering device (9) and the 
admixture point (11) on the mouthpiece (3), in 

each instance following the suction channel (22). 
An arrangement as defined in claim 1, 
characterized in that the supply channel (10) 

comprises a supply hose that is connected to the 
inside wall of the suction hose (2). 
An arrangement as defined in claim 2, 
characterized in that the supply channel (10) at 

both ends of the suction hose (2) is routed 
through a suction hose connector piece (28, 45) 

into the or out of the suction hose (2).  
 
An arrangement as defined in claim 3, 
characterized in that the suction hose connector 

piece (28) incorporates a stepped plug (44) with a 
peripheral groove (36) that is formed between two 

sealing rings (49). 
An arrangement as defined in one of the claims 1 
to 4, characterized in that the mouthpiece (3) 

comprises a suction handpiece (21), that can be 
installed on the suction hose (2), and an 

installable suction cannula (20), the admixture 
point (11) being formed in the area of the push 

coupling (25) of the suction cannula (20) on the 
suction handpiece (21). 
An arrangement as defined in claim 5, 
characterized in that the admixture point (11) 

incorporates an annular chamber (23) from which at 
least one opening (24) opens out into the suction 

channel (22). 
An arrangement as defined in one of the claims 1 
to 6, characterized in that the metering device 

(9) and the control device are arranged in a 
control block (13) that is connected with a 

connector block (12) for the suction hoses (2) 
that is arranged on the hose storage unit (1). 
An arrangement as defined in claim 7, 
characterized in that the control block (13) is in 

the form of a block; and in that bores that are 
perpendicular to the outer surfaces of the control 

block (13) and which merge together in the 
interior form conduits and the pump chamber (50).  

 
An arrangement as defined in claim 7 and claim 8, 
characterized in that a pipe elbow (110) for each 

suction hose (2) is arranged on the connector 
block (12) so as to be rotatable, and a pipe 

section (112) that is configured as a coupling 
element incorporates an annular chamber (126) that 

corresponds to the peripheral groove (36) of the 
suction hose connector piece (28) and which is 

connected with a longitudinal channel (62, 67, 
167, 169) of the control block (13) so as to 

provide for a flow. 
An arrangement as defined in claim 9, 
characterized in that the pipe elbow (110) 

incorporates a shut-off device (113, 114) for the 
suction channel (22) and a connector piece (124) 

that leads outward from the annular chamber (126) 
of the pipe section (112). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
