<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOSURE SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B4900	E05B4700	E05B4900	G07C900	G07B1500	E05B4700	G07B1500	G06K1700	G06K1700	G07C900	E05B3500	E05B3508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	G07C	G07B	E05B	G07B	G06K	G06K	G07C	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B49	E05B47	E05B49	G07C9	G07B15	E05B47	G07B15	G06K17	G06K17	G07C9	E05B35	E05B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULTE SCHLAGBAUM AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULTE-SCHLAGBAUM AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EISERMANN ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EISERMANN, ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Locking system
 
with a central unit,
 
with card keys (K), to be issued in encoded manner by 

the latter, whose faces are subdivided into variably 
magnetically encodable individual fields (E) for the 

individual locks / cardholders,
 
with at least a lock, wherein a card key (K) can be 

pushed into a slot (7) of the lock in which a part of 
the encoded individual fields (E) direct 

correspondingly positioned magnetic locking pins (31) 
as tumblers of the lock (4) into an open position, 

with a service station (SA) with a reading device,
 
wherein further individual fields of the card keys 

through their magnetisation polarity to be 
interrogated by the reading device also further embody 

a data identification for the purpose of cashless 
accounting for services of goods or the like utilised 

by the card key user at the service station (SA),
 
and with an analysis station connected to the central 

unit,
 
Characterised in that the service station (SA) recodes 

the individual data identification fields (E1) of the 
key (K) in value incrementing or value decrementing 

manner and the analysis station comprises a reading 
device for capturing and storing these recodings in 

association with other codings of the card key (K). 
Locking system according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the supplementary codings are the lock-related  

 
codings, if necessary the locking code itself. 
Locking system according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the analysis station is a service station (SO) 

connected to a central unit (Z) which transmits the 
stored data on-line into the central station (Z). 
Locking system according to one of the preceding 
claims, in particular claim 1, characterised in that 

the analysis station neutralises the recoded fields 
(E1) of the card key (K) after storage. 
Locking system according to one or several of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the recoding 

can be affected within the service station (SO, SA) by 
putting in money. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
