<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611702</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A packing container
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D546	B65D522	B65D520	B65D536	B65D536	B65D564	B65D566	B65D546	B65D520	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The container (1) is made from a single sheet (2) 
scored with longitudinal and transversal fold 

lines (3 and 4) defining a base (5), the 
longitudinal walls (6) and the transversal walls 

(7) being bilaterally provided with connecting 
tabs (12) transversally hinged to them, at least 

one of the longitudinal walls (6) being provided 
with a closing flap (10) and exhibiting folds (19) 

which define at least one longitudinal tab (18) 
destined to create, with apertures made on it, a 

handle (20). The closing flap (10) exhibits at 
least one vertical stiffening fluke (16) hinged to 

it and equipped with a locking and closing tab 
(21), also hinged to it and destined to be 

inserted in a seat (23) made on one of the 
transversal walls (7), or in the longitudinal wall 

(6) not provided with a closing flap (10). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISUAL PROJECT SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISUAL PROJECT S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREVIGLIERI NELLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREVIGLIERI, NELLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of single-piece
cardboard containers for retail and transport of
products, especially destined to wrap products
needing a stiff container, such as pastries and
articles of clothing.It is usual, in pastry bakeries, to place ready
foodstuffs on cardboard or plastic trays which are
then wrapped around with paper and tied with
ribbons which, once in place, function also as
handles for the goods.This is obviously a laborious process, and at the
end the contents of the package are not greatly
protected by such flimsy wrapping, and are thus
liable to be damaged during transport.To overcome this problem, a framework of single
strips of cardboard is created around the tray,
passing under it and over it in an arch-shape:
subsequent overwrapping with paper stiffens the
structure somewhat, but in essence the only
guarantee against damage is that the paper 
wrapping will not come into contact with the food.
Crushing is still probable with such a wrapping as
the one described above: also problematic are the
facts that the arch shape of the package precludes
the possibility of piling one on top of another
for transport, and indeed the shape also leads to
possible instability of the whole tray.Cakes and tarts are often packed in single-piece
cardboard packages made from a star-shaped
original sheet, having a quadrangular central base
and four wings departing one from each side of the
base. Two of the wings, on opposite sides to each
other, are provided with at least one hole at
their ends, and are foldable externalwise such as
to meet and constitute a manual handle for the
tray. The free ends of the other two wings have
slits through which the handles can be slid
freely. Recesses or tabs on the base of the handle
prevent the slitted wings from slipping out.Such containers are stronger than the previous-described
ones, but also exhibit a cupola form,
which together with the still weak mechanical
resistance they present, render stacking unwise.In the French Patent FR-A-2 275 229 is disclosed
another type of container that is box-shaped. The side tabs, connected to the cover of the
container, maintain the cover in a closed
position, but do not have a function of structural
help. Therefore, the possibility of stacking such
containers is still limited by the relative
weakness of the sidewalls.The US-A-4 168 028, which is deemed to represent
the closest prior art and on which is based the
preamble of claim 1, discloses a cardboard box
assembled from a single preformed sheet blank. The
box
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A packing container of the type constituted by a
single sheet (2) having a plurality of

longitudinal folds (3) and transversal folds (4)
defining at least a base (5), longitudinal walls

(6) and transversal walls (7) of the container (1)
when mounted, the longitudinal walls (6) being

bilaterally provided with connecting tabs (12)
which are transversally hinged to the longitudinal

walls (6) and arranged bilaterally to the
transversal walls (7), said connecting tabs (12)

being separated from the transversal walls (7) by
cuts (26), and being destined to cooperate with

the longitudinal walls (6) when the container (1)
is assembled, at least one of the longitudinal

walls (6) being provided with a closing flap (10)
constituting, when the container (1) is closed, a

cover (33) of the container (1), said closing flap
(10) exhibiting, on at least one free edge, and

hinged to the free edge along a respective second
fold (17), at least one vertical fluke (16)

provided with at least one locking and closing tab
(21) hinged to the stiffening fluke (16) along a

respective third fold (22), characterised in that
said fluke (16) is a stiffening fluke and said

closing tab (21) is destined to be inserted in a
seat (23) made inferiorly in the transversal wall

(7). 
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
the transversal walls (7) are each provided with a

fluke (8) hinged to them at a fourth, transversal,
fold (9) and the longitudinal walls (6) are

provided with closing flaps (10 parallel to the
longitudinal walls (6),

when the sheet (2) is not yet folded,
and hinged to them along

first longitudinal folds (11), and are further
provided with connecting tabs (12) hinged to them

at fifth transversal folds (13); each of the
flukes (8) being provided, along a free

longitudinal side, with at least one meshing tooth
(14) destined to be inserted and blocked in a

respective seating (15) on the base (5) after the
connecting tabs (12) of each longitudinal wall (6)

have been folded one towards the others, after the
transversal walls (7) and the longitudinal walls

(6) have been fold one towards the others up until
the transversal walls (7) have been brought into 

contact with the external sides of the connecting
tabs (12) and after the flukes (8) have been

folded up until they contact the internal and free
side of the connecting tabs (12); the closing

flaps (10) bilaterally exhibiting vertical
stiffening flukes (16), which are hinged to the

closing flaps (10) along transversal folds (17)
and which are destined to cover the transversal

walls (7) externally; at least two of the vertical
stiffening flukes (16) being provided with locking

and closing tabs (21) hinged to them along the
third transversal folds (22) and destined to be

inserted in seats (23) made inferiorly in the
transversal w
alls (7).
A container as in claim 2, characterised in that
the closing flaps (10) each exhibit a width which

is such that they partially overlap during
assembly of the container (1) and that they

exhibit c-shaped longitudinal tabs (18) on their
free longitudinal sides, which tabs (18) are

hinged to them along sixth folds (19) and create,
when the container (1) is mounted, a handle (20);

a first closing flap (10) being destined, when the
container is mounted, to be partially arranged 

below a second closing flap (10), said first
closing flap (10) exhibiting a central supporting

tab (24) and two support wings (25) for supporting
the second closing flap (10), defined by the

longitudinal tab (18); the second closing flap
(10) being provided with vertical stiffening

flukes (16) equipped with the locking and closing
tabs (21).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
each of the transversal walls (7) has an isosceles

trapezoid conformation and is separated from each
of the connecting tabs (12) by a cut (26) forming

and angle (alpha) with a contiguous transversal
wall (7); each of the connecting tabs (12) being

of a height, measured perpendicularly to the cut
(26), which is not greater than a height of the

transversal walls (7) and permitting the
longitudinal walls (6) to form, with the base (5)

when the container (1) is assembled, an angle
(alpha) equal to a base of a pyramidal

conformation of the transversal walls (7), the
vertical stiffening flukes (16) being of a size

measured perpendicularly to the folds (17) which
is equal to the transversal size of the 

longitudinal walls (6) and the transversal walls
(7) and being of a size, measured perpendicularly

to the folds (17), which is equal to a transversal
size of the longitudinal walls (6) and the

transversal walls (7).
A container as in claim 2, characterised in that
when the container (1) is mounted, the external

vertical stiffening flukes (16) each exhibit a
locking and closing tab (21), and the internal

vertical stiffening flukes (16) each exhibit a
recess (27) corresponding to the seating (23) of

the transversal wall (7).
A container as in claim 2, characterised in that
the flukes (8) have consecutive cuts (30) defining

corresponding upper longitudinal tabs (31) which
are an integral part of the transversal walls (7)

and which constituted, when the container (1) is
mounted, a central support element for the cover

(33).
A container as in claim 2, characterised in that
each of the connecting tabs (12) exhibits, in

proximity of the fourth folds (13), a portion (35) 
being of a same height as the longitudinal walls

(6), which portion (35) constitutes, when the
container is mounted, a lateral support element

for the cover (33).
A container as in claim 2, characterised in that
the fourth folds (9) are inclined with respect to

the transversal folds (4) and start from a top of
the base (5), the inclination of the second folds

(9) being such as to permit of a rigid connection
of each connecting tab (12) with its nearby fluke

(8) and a pack-folding of the sheet (2) with each
of the transversal walls (7) being interposed

between a lower base (5) and the fluke (8) and the
upper connecting tabs (12) and reciprocally

rigidly connected and covered by the longitudinal
walls (6).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
the first fold (11) is a perforated line (11a)

aimed at permitting of removing a portion from the
flap (10), leaving a linear torn edge.
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
the closing flap (10) has, at a central zone (C), 

a manual handle (36) for the mounted container,
which is directly applicable on the closing flap

(10).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in
that the closing flap (10) has at its central zone

(C) three distinct fold lines (19, 19' and 19''),
parallel to each other and defining externally two

equal portions (10', 10'') of the closing flap
(10) and internally two longitudinal tabs (18)

both provided with closed recesses (38) defining
corresponding apertures (39) and destined one to

be superposed on another, by folding along the
folds (19, 19' and 19''), and fixed among

themselves in such a way as to create, when the
container is mounted and in cooperation with the

apertures (39), a handle (20); the portion (10'')
of the closing flap (10) which is not hinged to

the longitudinal walls (6) exhibiting on at least
one free edge and hinged to it along a fold (17),

at least one vertical stiffening fluke (16)
provided with at least one locking and closing tab

(21) hinged to it along a third fold (22) and
destined to be inserted in at least one seat (23)

made inferiorly in the transversal wall (7) or in 
the longitudinal wall (6).
A container as in claim 11, characterised in that
the portion (10'') of the closing flap (10) not

hinged to the longitudinal wall (6) bilaterally
exhibits vertical stiffening flukes (16) hinged to

it along folds (17) and destined, when the
container (1) is mounted, to cover the transversal

walls (7) partially and externally, the vertical
stiffening flukes (16) being provided with locking

and closing tabs (21) hinged to them along third
transversal folds (22) and destined to be inserted

in seats (23) made inferiorly in the transversal
walls (7).
A container as in claim 11, characterised in that
the closing flap (10) exhibits longitudinal

dimensions (L) and transversal dimensions (T),
which transversal dimensions (T) are calculated to

be less than a tract running between the folds (19
and 19'), and equal to the dimensions of the

aperture in the mounted container (1).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
each of the transversal walls (7) and each of the 

connecting tabs (12) have an isosceles trapezoid
shape, the transversal walls (7) having a smaller

base which coincides with the transversal fold (4)
by which they are hinged to the base (5), and the

connecting tabs (12) having a greater base which
coincides with the fifth fold (13) by which they

are hinged to the longitudinal walls (6); the cuts
(26) defining the sides (43) of the transversal

walls (7) and the sides (34) of the connecting
tabs (12), the sides (43) forming an angle (alpha)

which is greater than 90 degrees with the
transversal fold (4) and the sides (34) forming an

angle (beta) which is supplementary to angle
(alpha) with the fifth fold (13) in such a way

that when the container is assembled, with each of
the connecting tabs (12) fixed to a respective

transversal wall (7) with its side (34) along the
free larger base of the transversal wall (7), the

longitudinal walls (6) form an angle (A) equal to
angle (alpha) with the base (5).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
each of the transversal walls (7) exhibits two

folds (9) which are inclined with respect to the
transversal folds (4), with an inclination which 

is opposite to the inclination of the sides (43),
starting from the top of the base (5) and going

towards the larger base and defining, bilaterally
to the transversal wall (7), a pair of flukes (8),

the inclination of the fourth folds (9) being such
as to permit, once each connecting tab (12) has

been rigidly connected to a nearby fluke (8), a
pack-folding of the sheet (2), with each of the

transversal walls (7) being interposed betweeen
the lower base (5) and the flukes (8) and the

connecting tabs (12) all covered by the
longitudinal walls (6), each of the transversal

walls (7) exhibiting, at a free larger base, a tab
(40) hinged to the transversal wall (7) by a fold

(41), said tab (40) forming, when the container is
mo
unted and the tab (40) is folded internalwise of
the container (1), a structural stiffening element

for the transversal wall (7).
A container as in claim 1, characterised in that
the longitudinal wall (6) opposite to the

longitudinal wall (6) to which the closing flap is
hinged (10) is provided with a longitudinal tab

(31) hinged to it along a fold (42), the tab (31)
constituting, when the container is mounted and 

after the tab (31) has been folded internalwise of
the container (1), a stiffening element for the

longitudinal wall (6).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
