<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650782</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Press brake
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D500	B21D500	B21D4326	B21D4326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D5	B21D5	B21D43	B21D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a press brake (20) for bending workpieces (22) along a bending line (23), with an operating area (17) in front of the bending line (23), with a stop area (24) behind the bending line (23), with a drive (21) for the stroke of a bending tool (9), with a stroke-actuating device (7) which activates the drive (21) and with an interlock device to prevent the stroke-actuating device (7) from being switched on, with a stop device (26) which is arranged in the stop area (24) and has a rail (27) which can be moved and positioned perpendicular to the bending line (23) by means of a controllable drive and on which at least two stop fingers (28, 29) which can be displaced and positioned along the rail (27) by hand and fixed by means of a clamping device (42) are arranged, the position of the individual stop fingers can be changed manually without danger by virtue of the fact that a locking device is provided for the release of the clamping device (42) and in that the stop device (26) can be moved into a position in which the stop fingers (28, 29) project beyond the bending line (23) into the operating area (17) of the press brake, the switch-on interlock device is operative and the locking device for the release of the clamping device (42) is inoperative. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUMPF GMBH 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUMPF GMBH 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILGER WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILIAN FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILGER, WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILIAN, FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A bending press (20) for edging workpieces (22) along a
bending line (23), having a work area (17) located in

front of the bending line (23), a detent area (24)
located behind the bending line (23), having a drive

mechanism (21) for the lifting movement of a bending tool
(9), having a lift actuating device (7) activating the

drive mechanism (21) and a switch locking mechanism for
the lift actuating device (7) , having a detent device

(26) arranged in the detent area (24), which has a rail
(27) which can be displaced perpendicularly in respect to

the bending line (23) and positioned by means of a
controllable drive mechanism, and on which at least two

detent fingers (28, 29), which can be manually displaced
along the rail (27), can be positioned and fixed in place

by means of a clamping mechanism (42), are arranged,
characterized in that a blocking device is provided for

releasing the clamping mechanism (42), and that the
detent device (26) can be displaced into a position, in

which the detent fingers (28, 29) project across the
bending line (23) into the work area (17) of the bending

press, and that in this position the switch locking
mechanism becomes operative, and the blocking device for

releasing the clamping mechanism (42) becomes
inoperative.
The bending press in accordance with claim 1,
characterized in that the clamping mechanism (42) is

constituted by a clamping element which, when actuated,
clamps the detent fingers (28, 29) to the rail (27).
The bending press in accordance with claim 2,
characterized in that the clamping element has at least

one element or a corresponding section which, when 
actuated, presses against the rail (27) and the detent

fingers (28, 29).
The bending press in accordance with claim 2 or 3,
characterized in that the clamping element is constituted

by a compressed air cylinder or a magnet.
The bending press in accordance with one of claims 2 to
4, characterized in that the position and/or shape of the

clamping element can be changed by its being charged with
a fluid.
The bending press in accordance with one of claims 2, 3
or 5, characterized in that the clamping element consists

of a hose which can be filled with a fluid, for example a
compressed air hose (47), whose cross-sectional shape

and/or position can be changed by means of interior
pressure.
The bending press in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the switch locking device

has a switch which interrupts the energy supply to the
lift actuating device (7).
The bending press in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the blocking device for

releasing the clamping mechanism (42) has a switch which
interrupts the energy supply for releasing the clamping

mechanism (42).
The bending press in accordance with one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that a release device for

releasing the clamping mechanism (42) is provided, and
that the blocking mechanism deactivates the release

device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
