<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624502</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Swinging and sliding door for vehicles, especially for public transport vehicles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05F1514	E05F1500	B61D1900	E05F1518	B61D1900	E05F1514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05F	E05F	B61D	E05F	B61D	E05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05F15	E05F15	B61D19	E05F15	B61D19	E05F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A swinging and sliding door for vehicles, in particular public transport vehicles. A horizontally extending running rail (4) in which a roller guide (5) engages is arranged on the inside of the door wing (2) essentially in the region of the horizontal centre. The roller guide (5) is held in an intermediate mount (6) which is displaceably held in a mount (6) which is permanently connected to the body of the vehicle. During the opening movement of the door, the door wing (2) is moved initially outwards in a first movement step (Ö1) before being displaced laterally on the roller guide (5) in a second movement step. During the closing movement of the door, after moving into the door opening the door wing is given an additional movement parallel to the displacement direction of the second movement step (Ö2) in the reverse direction with respect to the first movement step (Ö1). This results in locking devices arranged on the door wing (2) engaging one in the other. The locking elements are arranged on the vertical side edges of the door wing on a frame (14) which runs all around the inside of the door wing and provides rigidity while their counter elements are located on the door frame (1). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BODE 
&
 CO GEB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEBRUEDER BODE 
&
 CO. GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HORN, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Outwardly pivotable sliding door for vehicles, 
particularly vehicles for public passenger transport, 

having a door frame (1) disposed in an opening in the 
side wall of the vehicle body and a door leaf (2) 

which is provided, on its outer edges, with a 
circumferential deal (3) and which, for the purpose of 

opening the door, is first offset, in a first movement 
step (Ö1), out of the closing position and into a 

displacement position and then displaced, in a second 
movement step (Ö2), laterally in the horizontal 

direction into the opening position, wherein the 
direction of movement of the first movement step (Ö1) 

is located exclusively perpendicularly to the 
direction of displacement of the second movement step 

(Ö2), wherein there is disposed, on the inside of the 
door leaf (2), substantially in the region of the 

horizontal centre, a horizontally extending running 
rail (4) which is fixedly connected to the door leaf 

(2) and in which there engages a roller guide (5) 
which, inside the door opening, is immediately 

adjacent, in one region, to the vertical side edge, 
located in the direction of opening, of the door frame 

(1), is disposed at the height of the running rail (4) 
and is mounted in a mounting (6) so as to be 

displaceable in the direction of the first movement 
step (Ö1), and wherein the mounting (6) is fixedly 

connected to the vehicle body, characterised in that a 
circumferential stiffening frame (14) is disposed on 

the inside of the door leaf (2) and there is disposed, 
on at least one of the vertical side edges of the door 

leaf (2), a locking element (15.1, 16.1) which, when 
the door is closed, is located opposite a 

counterelement (15.2, 16.2) disposed on the door frame 
(1) and can be brought into locking engagement in the 

said counterelement by an additional movement (Ö3) 
which is performed when the door is in the closed  

 
condition and which extends parallel to the direction 

of displacement of the second movement step (Ö2). 
Sliding door according to claim 1, characterised in 
that each locking element (15.1, 16.1) is fixedly 

connected to the door leaf (2) and the roller guide 
(5) is mounted in an intermediate mounting (6.2) so as 

to be displaceable in the direction of the first 
movement step (Ö1) and the said intermediate mounting 

(6.2) is mounted, so as to be displaceable in the 
direction of the additional movement (Ö3), on the 

mounting (6) fixedly connected to the vehicle body. 
Sliding door according to claim 2, characterised in 
that the intermediate mounting (6.2) is connected to 

the mounting (6) via a spindle drive (11) driven by a 
first electric motor (13). 
Sliding door according to claim 3, characterised in 
that the door drive for moving the door leaf (2) in 

the first movement step (Ö1) has a second electric 
motor (10) which is disposed on the intermediate 

mounting (6.2) and drives, via a rack-and-pinion gear 
(8-9), the roller guide (5) which is guided in the 

direction of the first movement step (Ö1) in a guide 
(6.1) connected to the intermediate mounting (6.2). 
Sliding door according to one of claims 2 to 4, 
characterised in that, on that edge of the door leaf 

(2) which is located in the direction of the 
additional movement (Ö3), there is disposed on the 

outside of the circumferential frame (14) at least one 
locking element which is constructed as a bolt (15.1) 

and interacts with a receptacle (15.2) disposed on the 
door frame (1).  

 
Sliding door according to claim 5, characterised in 
that, on that edge of the door leaf (2) which is 

located oppositely to the direction of the additional 
movement (Ö3), there is disposed on the inside of the 

circumferential frame (14) at least one locking 
element which is constructed as a receptacle (16.1) 

and interacts with a bolt (16.2) fixedly connected to 
the door frame (1) via a bracket (16.3). 
Sliding door according to one of claims 2 to 6, 
characterised in that the door drive for moving the 

door leaf (2) in the second movement step (Ö2) has an 
electric linear motor (13) which is disposed on the 

roller guide (5), operates in a contact-less manner 
and directly drives the running rail (4). 
Sliding door according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the door drive for moving the door leaf in the 

second movement step (Ö2) has a rack-and-pinion drive 
having a rack which is mounted on the door leaf so as 

to be displaceable in the direction of the additional 
movement (Ö3) against spring force and in which there 

engages a pinion which can be driven from an electric 
motor fixedly connected to the roller guide, there 

being disposed on that end of the rack which is 
located in the direction of the additional movement 

(Ö3) a locking element which interacts with the 
counterelement disposed on the door frame. 
Sliding door according to claim 7 or 8, characterised 
in that the mounting (6) for the roller guide (5) is 

fastened to a vertical side post of the door frame 
(1). 
Sliding door according to one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that the door leaf (2), which is 

constructed so as to be at least partially flexible in  
 

the direction of the first movement step (Ö1), is pre-tensioned 
in such a way that, when the side edges of 

the door leaf (2), which are provided with the 
circumferential seal (3), are superimposed on the 

countersurfaces of the door frame (1), the central 
region of the door leaf (2) can be moved, against the 

flexible pre-tensioning force and with deformation by 
a predetermined extent, in the closing direction of 

the first movement step (Ö1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
