<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627623</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for determining the surface structure of yarns
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3336	G01N3336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The surface of the yarn (G) is imaged onto a sensor (7) which has a plurality of sensor elements of different structure. The signals from the individual sensor elements are compared with one another and the structure of the yarn surface being examined is determined using the coincidence with the corresponding sensor element. The structure to be examined is formed both by the actual yarn surface and including fibres projecting through the yarn edge and by any inclusions. Contaminants are also to be counted as inclusions, especially those which are caused by foreign fibres. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUWA AG ZELLWEGER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZELLWEGER LUWA AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSEL ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEITZ PETER DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAMPFLER HANS DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSEL, ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEITZ, PETER, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAMPFLER, HANS, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Method for determining the surface structure of yarns
(G), the yarn being illuminated and light from the yarn

being projected on to a sensor (7), characterized in
that the light is directed on to several sensor

elements (SM1, SMn) of the sensor, the sensor elements
having different configurations and the configurations

representing images of typical types of the structure
to be determined and contained in the light, and in

that electrical signals from these sensor elements are
processed and the sought structure is determined from

them.
Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that the
configurations of the sensor elements comprise features

of the structure of an image of the surface of the
yarn.
Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that the
configurations of the sensors elements comprise

features of the Fourier transform of the structure of
the surface of the yarn.
Method according to either of Claims 1 or 2 for
determining the yarn twist, characterized in that the

fibre angle (a) at the surface is determined by means
of the said sensor elements (SM1, SMn) and the diameter

of the yarn (G) is determined by means of a further
detector, and the yarn twist is calculated from them.
Method according to either of Claims 1 or 2,
characterized in that, for the purpose of determining

complex structures, photoelectric images of features
typical of these structures are produced on the sensor

(7) and the image of the yarn (G) is directed over this
detector arrangement. 
Method according to Claim 5, characterized in that the
structures to be determined are yarn impurities,

particularly impurities due to foreign fibres.
Apparatus for execution of the method according to
Claim 1, with a light source (2) for illuminating a

yarn (G) and a sensor (7) for receiving the light from
the yarn, characterized in that the sensor (7) is

constructed from a plurality of photoelectric elements
(SM1, SMn), of different configurations, which comprise

typical features of images, and in that an evaluation
device (8), comprising a correlation matrix, is

provided for processing the signals delivered from the
sensor elements.
Apparatus according to Claim 7, characterized in that
the sensor elements (SM1, SMn) are formed by

photoelements arranged on an integrated photochip (7)
and in that the photochip additionally comprises

integrated circuits for the evaluation.
Apparatus according to Claim 8, characterized in that
the photoelectric elements (SM1, SMn) are formed by a

striate pattern of photoelements and the photocurrents
of the individual photoelements are directed

alternately to one of two circuit points (SP+, SP-),
where a summation is performed, and in that the

differences of the summated currents of the two
circuits points form a measurement of the match between

the structure of the striate pattern concerned and the
examined structure.
Apparatus according to Claim 8, characterized in that a
second type of sensor element, for determining a second

yarn feature, is disposed on the integrated photochip
(7). 
Apparatus according to Claim 7, characterized in that
the arrangement for imaging the yarn surface comprises

a so-called lens array for imaging an identical yarn
portion on to several sensors.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
